PROPOFOL
Drug Classification
ATC CODE
N01AX10
ANATOMICAL
Nervous System
THERAPEUTIC
Anesthetics
PHARMACOLOGICAL
Anesthetics, General
CHEMICAL CLASS
Other General Anesthetics
Technical Specifications
PNF Primary Care
Reserved AMs
IV › 10 mg/mL, 20 mL ampule (Rx)
IV › 10 mg/mL, 50 mL pre-filled syringe (Rx)
IV › 10 mg/mL, 20 mL vial (Rx)
IV › 10 mg/mL, 50 mL vial (Rx)
Dosage
IV › 10 mg/mL, 20 mL ampule (Rx)
Geriatric, Debilitated Patients, ASA-PS 3 or 4: Use a lower induction dose, a slower maintenance rate of
administration, and avoid rapidly delivered boluses to reduce the incidence of unwanted cardiorespiratory
depressive events. Pediatric: Consult local regulations and individual institutional policies and procedures.
Individualize doses based on total body weight and titrate to the desired clinical effect. Wait at least 3–5 minutes
between dose adjustments to clinically assess drug effects. Use smaller doses when used with opioids. Alcohol
Use: For general anesthesia, increase dose with chronic alcoholism and decrease dose with acutely intoxicated
(alcoholic) patients.
Administration
May 6, 2026, 8:19:47 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph
Page 1 of 3

Dose Adjustment
Geriatric, Debilitated Patients, ASA-PS 3 or 4:
Use a lower induction dose, a slower maintenance rate of administration, and avoid rapidly delivered boluses to
reduce the incidence of unwanted cardiorespiratory depressive events.
Pediatric:
Consult local regulations and individual institutional policies and procedures. Individualize doses based on total body
weight and titrate to the desired clinical effect. Wait at least 3–5 minutes between dose adjustments to clinically
assess drug effects. Use smaller doses when used with opioids.
Alcohol Use:
For general anesthesia, increase dose with chronic alcoholism and decrease dose with acutely intoxicated (alcoholic)
patients.
Indications
Induction and maintenance of general anesthesia; monitored anesthesia care sedation, ICU sedation in intubated
mechanically-ventilated patients.
Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to eggs, egg products, soybeans, or soy products; hypersensitivity to lipid emulsions; children =18
years of age receiving intensive care; where general anesthesia or sedation is contraindicated; pregnancy; lactation.
Precautions
WARNING: Should only be used by experienced personnel who are not actively engaged in the procedure or surgery.
If used in a non-intubated and/or nonmechanically ventilated patient, qualified personnel and appropriate equipment
for rapid institution of respiratory and/or cardiovascular support must be immediately available.
Hypovolemia; Epilepsy; Lipid disorders; Increased intracranial pressure.
Elderly; Children.
May 6, 2026, 8:19:47 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph
Page 2 of 3

Adverse Drug Reactions
Common: Hypotension, hypertension, bradycardia, cardiac arrhythmia, low cardiac output, tachycardia, involuntary
body movements, skin rash, pruritus, hypertriglyceridemia, respiratory acidosis (during weaning), pain at injection
site (includes stinging), apnea
Less Common: Agitation, amblyopia, anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reaction, anticholinergic syndrome, asystole, atrial
arrhythmia, atrial premature contractions, bigeminy, chills, cloudy urine, cough, decreased lung function, delirium,
dizziness, drowsiness, fever, flushing, hair discoloration (green), hemorrhage, hypertonia, hypomagnesemia, hypoxia,
infusion-related reaction (propofol-related infusion syndrome), infusion site reaction (including pain, swelling,
blisters and/or tissue necrosis), laryngospasm, leukocytosis, limb pain, loss of consciousness (postoperative; with or
without increased muscle tone), myalgia, nail discoloration (green nailbeds), nausea, pancreatitis, paresthesia,
phlebitis, pulmonary edema, rhabdomyolysis, sialorrhea, syncope, thrombosis, urine discoloration (green),
ventricular premature contractions, visual disturbance, wheezing
Rare: Myoclonus (including seizure and opisthotonos)
Drug Interactions
Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Propofol: Valproate
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Blood Pressure-lowering Agents (antihypertensive effect); CNS
Depressants (sedative, anesthetic, and cardiorespiratory effects); Hypotension-associated Agents (hypotensive
effect); Pramipexole, Ropinirole, Rotigotine (sedative effect); QTc-prolonging Agents (QTcprolonging effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Propofol: Alfentanil (opisthotonos, which is the severe hyperextension
and spasticity resulting in arching or bridging position, and/or tonic clonic seizures); CNS depressants; Rifampin
(hypotensive effect); Rufinamide (sleepiness and dizziness)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of SSRIs (psychomotor impairment)
Increases serum concentration of the Ropivacaine
Mechanism of Action
Propofol facilitates inhibitory neurotransmission mediated by GABA and is associated with minimal respiratory
depression and a short half-life with a duration of action of 2–10 minutes. It may also reduce glutamatergic activity
through NMDA receptor blockade.
Pregnancy & Remarks
PREGNANCY CATEGORY
B
May 6, 2026, 8:19:47 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph
Page 3 of 3

