April 24, 2026, 10:27:41 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

0.9% SODIUM CHLORIDE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05XA03

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Additives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 2 mL ampule (Rx)

IV › 2.5 mL ampule (Rx)

IV › 5 mL ampule (Rx)

IV › 10 mL ampule (Rx)

IV › 20 mL ampule (Rx)

IV › 50 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

IV › 100 mLbottle / bag (Rx)

IV › 200 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

IV › 500 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

IV › 1 L bottle / bag (Rx)

IRRIG › 1 L bottle solution for irrigation (Rx)

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:27:41 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

IV › 2 mL ampule (Rx)

Composition: Na+ 154 mmol/L Cl- 154 mmol/L NOTE: Individualize fluid administration based on calculated
maintenance or replacement fluid requirements. INTRAVENOUS Fluid and electrolyte replacement: by IV infusion,
ADULT and CHILD, determined based on clinical and, whenever possible, electrolyte monitoring. See under
Sodium Chloride. Dose of sodium chloride is dependent on degree of sodium depletion (i.e., moderately severe
hyponatremia where serum sodium is between 125-129 mmol/L or profound hyponatremia where serum sodium is
<125 mmol/L); on severity of symptoms (i.e., moderately or severely symptomatic); and on time of development of
hyponatremia (acute, where hyponatremia is documented to exist <48hrs). IMPORTANT NOTE: Sodium deficit must
be corrected gradually in stages. Avoid overtly rapid correction to prevent development of Osmotic Demyelination
Syndrome (previously named Central Pontine Myelinosis). The rate of correction of hyponatremia should not be
more than 10 mmol/L (or 10 mEq/L) in 24 hours, or 18 mmol/L (or 10 mEq/L) in 48 hours.

Administration

IV › 2 mL ampule (Rx)

For single use only. Contamination may lead to injury, illness or death. Inspect visually for particulate matter and
discoloration prior to administration.

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
Select doses with care due to an increased risk of adverse effects.

Indications

Fluid and electrolyte replacement
therapy in conditions where water and sodium losses are in isotonic proportion; vehicle for IV
drug administration; priming and rinsing fluid
for hemodialysis; lavage in surgical patients.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:27:41 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Where the administration of
sodium or chloride could be clinically detrimental.

Precautions

WARNING: Mix infusion solutions thoroughly after adding concentrated electrolytes to avoid possible toxicity.

Impaired renal function, cardiac failure, hypertension, peripheral and pulmonary edema, and toxemia during
pregnancy (restrict intake); Cardiac, cirrhotic, or nephrotic patients.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Air embolization, febrile response, local tenderness, tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection, venous
thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia

NOTE: May occur because of the solution, added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration.

Rare: Edema, sodium accumulation

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of hypertension and edema of the following drugs due to sodium and water retention:
Corticosteroids

Mechanism of Action

A sterile, non-pyrogenic, isotonic solution of sodium chloride in water for injection.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3