April 24, 2026, 10:28:03 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

10% DEXTROSE IN WATER

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N/A

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Additives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 250 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

IV › 500 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

IV › 1 L bottle / bag (Rx)

IV › 3 mL ampule (as solvent) (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 250 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

Dose is usually dependent upon the age, weight, and clinical condition of the patient, as well as laboratory
determinations. NOTE: Use with caution in infants of diabetic mothers, except as may be indicated in
hypoglycemic neonates.

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:28:03 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IV › 250 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

For IV administration only. Contains no bacteriostat, antimicrobial agent or added buffer. For use only as a single-
dose injection following admixture or dilution. Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to
administration. Do NOT administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact. Prior to administration, dilute to a
concentration which, when administered with an amino acid (nitrogen) source, will result in an appropriate calorie-
to-gram nitrogen ratio, and which has an osmolarity consistent with the route of administration. NOTE: Unless
appropriately diluted, hypertonic dextrose infusion into a peripheral vein may result in vein irritation, vein damage,
and thrombosis. Strongly hypertonic nutrient solutions should be administered through an indwelling IV catheter
with the tip located in a large central vein such as the superior vena cava. Use a final filter during administration.
Slowly inject the solution at a rate not exceeding 0.5 g/kg body weight per hour. NOTE: About 95% of the dextrose
is retained when infused at a rate of 0.8 g/kg/hour. Do NOT administer by SC or IM route. Do NOT administer
simultaneously with blood through the same administration set because of the possibility of pseudo-
agglutination or hemolysis. NOTE: All injections in plastic containers are intended for IV administration using
sterile equipment. Replace IV administration apparatus at least once every 24 hours. Interruption or rapid
cessation of hypertonic dextrose therapy may result in a hypoglycemic reaction. Titrate with a dilute dextrose
solution until the patient has reached glucose equilibrium.

Indications

Source of water and calories; parenteral nutrient, indicated as a caloric component in a parenteral nutrition regimen;
used with an appropriate protein (nitrogen) source in the prevention of nitrogen loss or in the treatment of negative
nitrogen balance in patients where:
(1) alimentary tract cannot or should not be used,
(2) GI absorption of protein is impaired, or
(3) metabolic requirements for protein are substantially increased, as with extensive burns.

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:28:03 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Intracranial or intraspinal hemorrhage; severe dehydration; anuric; hepatic coma.

Precautions

WARNING: Contains aluminum that may be toxic. May reach toxic aluminum levels with prolonged use if kidney
function is impaired.

Administration by central venous catheter should be used only by those familiar with this technique and its
complications.

Overt or subclinical diabetes mellitus or carbohydrate intolerance (use with caution); hyperglycemia and glycosuria
(slow the infusion rate to minimize these conditions; monitor blood and urine glucose); vitamin B-complex
deficiency; Acute ischemic stroke (do not use after acute ischemic strokes); cardiac insufficiency (use with caution
to avoid circulatory overload); Hypokalemia; IV injections can cause fluid and/or solute overload resulting in dilution
of serum electrolyte concentrations, overhydration, congested states, or pulmonary edema; Clinical evaluation and
periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance, electrolyte concentrations,
and acid-base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy, or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such
evaluation; Elderly and children (administer with caution); premature neonates.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of
injection, extravasation, hypervolemia

[NOTE: May occur because of the solution or the technique of administration].

Hyperosmolar syndrome (excessively rapid administration), hypovolemia, dehydration, mental confusion, and/or loss
of consciousness, diuresis (too rapid infusion), hyperglycemia (too rapid infusion), glycosuria (too rapid infusion),
hyperosmolar coma (too rapid infusion)

NOTE: If an adverse reaction occurs, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate
therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination, if deemed necessary.

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:28:03 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of hypertension and edema of the following drugs due to sodium and water retention:
Corticosteroids

NOTE: Additives may be incompatible. Consult a pharmacist. If additives are to be introduced, use aseptic technique.

Mechanism of Action

A sterile, non-pyrogenic, hypertonic solution of Dextrose, USP in water for injection for intravenous administration
after appropriate admixture or dilution.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 4 of 4