April 24, 2026, 10:28:18 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

5% DEXTROSE IN 0.9% SODIUM CHLORIDE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05BB02

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Affecting the Electrolyte Balance

CHEMICAL CLASS

Dextrose Preparations in Sodium Chloride

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 250 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

IV › 500 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

IV › 1 L bottle / bag (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 250 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

Composition: Dextrose 50 g/L Na+ 154 mmol/L Cl- 154 mmol/L Dose is dependent on age, weight, and clinical
condition of patient. Select dose and constant infusion rate with caution in pediatric patients, particularly
neonates and low birth weight infants, because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia. Dose of
sodium chloride is dependent on degree of sodium depletion (e.g., moderately severe hyponatremia (serum
sodium, 125–129 mmol/L) or profound hyponatremia (serum sodium <125 mmol/L); on severity of symptoms (e.g.,
moderate or severe); and time of development of hyponatremia (acute, where hyponatremia is documented to
exist <48 hours).

Administration

IV › 250 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

Adjust rate of administration according to tolerance. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local
pain and venous irritation. Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do NOT
administer unless solution is clear, and container is undamaged.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:28:18 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
Take care in dose selection due to an increased risk of adverse effects.

Indications

Initial fluid and electrolyte replacement therapy in conditions with combined water and sodium depletion; vehicle for
IV drug administration.

Contraindications

Known hypersensitivity to corn or corn products; where the administration of sodium or chloride could be clinically
detrimental.

Precautions

WARNING: Mix infusion solutions thoroughly after adding concentrated electrolytes to avoid possible toxicity.

Cardiovascular condition, cirrhotic disease, and nephrotic disease, and in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy;
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with overt or known diabetes mellitus and
carbohydrate intolerance for any reason; clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory examinations are necessary;
Cardiovascular effects.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Rare: Sodium accumulation, water retention

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of hypertension and edema of the following drugs due to sodium and water retention:
Corticosteroids

Mechanism of Action

A sterile, non-pyrogenic, large-volume parenteral solution, which contains 0.9% of sodium chloride and 5% dextrose
in water for injection; a source of electrolytes, water, and calories for patients.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:28:18 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3