April 24, 2026, 10:28:46 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

5% DEXTROSE IN WATER

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N/A

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Additives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 250 mL, bottle/bag (IV infusion and as vehicle for IV medications) (Rx)

IV › 500 mL, bottle/bag (IV infusion and as vehicle for IV medications) (Rx)

IV › 1 L, bottle/bag (IV infusion and as vehicle for IV medications) (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 250 mL, bottle/bag (IV infusion and as vehicle for IV medications) (Rx)

INTRAVENOUS For replacement therapy: by IV infusion, depending on requirement, with average dose 1,000–2,000
mL/day (flow rate up to 120 drops/minute, 360 mL/hour).

Administration

IV › 250 mL, bottle/bag (IV infusion and as vehicle for IV medications) (Rx)

Adjust rate of administration according to tolerance. Too rapid infusion may cause local pain and venous irritation.
Use largest peripheral vein and a small-bore needle. Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior
to administration.

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
Select doses with care due to an increased risk of adverse effects

Page 1 of 2



April 24, 2026, 10:28:46 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Replacement therapy in conditions
mainly due to water losses; elevated serum sodium; IV infusion to keep vein open for IV drug administration.

Contraindications

Known hypersensitivity to corn
or corn products.

Precautions

WARNING: Mix infusion solutions thoroughly after adding concentrated electrolytes to avoid possible toxicity.

Fluid and/or solute overload; prolonged infusion of isotonic or hypotonic dextrose in water; Hyponatremia; fluid
retention; DM or carbohydrate intolerance (use with caution); Contains aluminum which may be toxic, particularly in
those with impaired kidney function, e.g., premature neonates.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of
injection, extravasation, hypervolemia.
NOTE: may occur because of the solution or the technique during administration.

Mechanism of Action

A sterile, non-pyrogenic solution of dextrose that is indicated for use in adults and children as a source of calories
and water of hydration.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2