April 24, 2026, 10:28:25 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

5% DEXTROSE IN LACTATED RINGER’S

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05BB02

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Affecting the Electrolyte Balance

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 250 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

IV INFUSION › 500 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

IV INFUSION › 1 L bottle / bag (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 250 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

Composition: Dextrose 50 g/L Na+ 130 mmol/L K+ 4 mmol/L Ca++ 1.22 – 1.5 mmol/L Cl- 109 mmol/L Lactate 28
mmol/L Dose is dependent on age, weight, and clinical condition of patient.

Administration

IV › 250 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

Administer via IV route. Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do NOT
administer unless solution is clear, and container is undamaged. Do NOT connect flexible plastic containers in
series to avoid air embolism due to possible residual air contained in the primary container. Pressurizing IV
solutions contained in flexible plastic containers to increase flow rates can result in air embolism if the residual air
in the container is not fully evacuated prior to administration. Do NOT administer simultaneously with citrate
anticoagulated or preserved blood through the same administration set to prevent likelihood of coagulation.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:28:25 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Start at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac
function, and of concomitant disease or drug therapy.

Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
Select dose with care due to increased risk of adverse effects, e.g., sodium and potassium retention.

Indications

Source of water, electrolytes, and calories; alkalinizing effect.

NOTE: Capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient.

NOT for use the treatment of severe potassium deficiency, lactic acidosis, or severe metabolic acidosis.

Contraindications

Known hypersensitivity to sodium lactate; allergy to corn or corn products.

Precautions

WARNING: Mix infusion solutions thoroughly after adding concentrated electrolytes to avoid possible toxicity.

Hypersensitivity (immediately stop infusion if any signs or symptoms of a suspected hypersensitivity reaction
develop); Electrolyte imbalance; Hyperkalemia or conditions predisposing to hyperkalemia; alkalosis or risk for
alkalosis; Conditions that may cause sodium and/or potassium retention, fluid overload, or edema; Cardiac disease;
hypervolemia; overhydration; Impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes mellitus; Severe renal impairment; Conditions
associated with increased lactate levels or impaired lactate utilization, such as severe hepatic insufficiency;
Substantially hypertonic solutions (administer hyperosmolar solutions with caution, if at all, to patients with
hyperosmolar states); Solutions containing calcium salts should be used with caution in patients with hypercalcemia
or conditions predisposing to hypercalcemia, such as severe renal impairment and granulomatous diseases
associated with increased calcitriol synthesis such as sarcoidosis, calcium renal calculi; Elderly; children and
newborns

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:28:25 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Less Common: Pain and inflammation at the injection site, phlebitis, tissue necrosis, venous irritation, venous
thrombosis.
Rare: Angioedema, anxiety, blood pressure decreased, bronchospasm, chest discomfort and pain, cough, decreased
heart rate, dysgeusia, dyspnea, edema, erythema, flushing, headache, hyperkalemia, hypersensitivity reactions,
including anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions; hypesthesia, nausea, paresthesia, pruritus, pyrexia, rash,
respiratory distress, tachycardia, throat irritation, urticaria.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Alters renal clearance of the following drugs:
Acidic Drugs, e.g., Salicylates, Barbiturates (increased renal clearance)
Basic Drugs, e.g., Sympathomimetics (decreased renal clearance)
Lithium (increased renal clearance)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Corticosteroids (sodium and fluid retention)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Drugs which can cause hyperkalemia, e.g., Potassium-sparing Diuretics, Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists, ACE
Inhibitors, Immunosuppressants (hyperkalemia)
Thiazide Diuretics (hypercalcemia)
Vitamin D (hypercalcemia)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Ceftriaxone (Ceftriaxone-Calcium Salt precipitation in the bloodstream)

Mechanism of Action

A sterile, non-pyrogenic solution, which contains 5% dextrose and lactated ringer’s solution, in a single-dose
container for IV administration and can produce a metabolic alkalinizing effect.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3