April 24, 2026, 10:29:59 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ACTIVATED CHARCOAL

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

A07BA01

ANATOMICAL

Various

THERAPEUTIC

All Other Therapeutic Products

PHARMACOLOGICAL

General Antidotes

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › USP grade powder, given as slurry (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › USP grade powder, given as slurry (Rx)

Reduction of absorption, by mouth, ADULT and CHILD >12 years, 50–100 g in 100–150 mL distilled water as a slurry
given as a single dose, as soon as possible after ingestion of poison; CHILD 1–12 years, 25 g as a single dose (50 g in
severe poisoning) in 50–100 mL distilled water; INFANT, 1 g/kg as a single dose (maximum, 50 g) [NOTE: May repeat
lavage every 6 hours for 48–72 hours. To produce effective adsorption, a ratio of about 10-parts activated charcoal
to 1-part poison is needed]. Active elimination, by mouth, ADULT, 50 g every 4 hours (in case of intolerance, 25 g
every 2 hours); CHILD >1 year, 25–50 g every 4–6 hours; INFANT, 1 g/kg every 4–6 hours.

Administration

ORAL › USP grade powder, given as slurry (Rx)

In preparing lavage, ensure that the patient is in trendelenburg (supine with feet higher than the head) and left
lateral decubitus position (lying on the left). Administer as a slurry (thick suspension) to increase adsorptive
capacity. Do NOT administer with food due todecreased efficacy. Administer the smallest dose slowly to avoid
vomiting. Adsorptive effectiveness is time-dependent. It is best administered within 1 hour after poison
ingestion. NOT for use in poisoning with the following substances: alcohols (e.g., ethanol, methanol), clofenotane
(e.g., dicophane, DDT), corrosive substances, cyanides, malathion, and metal salts, (e.g., iron, lithium). NOTE: If the
patient is conscious and cooperative, a slurry form of the activated charcoal may be orally administered. But in
cases where NGT may be obstructed, further dilution is allowed.

Dose Adjustment

Uremic Adult Patients: Administer orally 20–50 g once daily.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:29:59 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Gastrointestinal decontamination for specific drug or poison ingestion associated with significant risk of toxicity;
acute, oral poisoning

Contraindications

Bowel obstruction; poisoning by hydrocarbons (e.g., petroleum distillates) with high potential for harm if aspirated;
poisoning by corrosive substances; GI tract not anatomically intact; unprotected airway

Precautions

WARNING: Electrolyte abnormalities (hypernatremia, hypokalemia, hypermagnesemia) have been reported to occur
with the concomitant use of cathartics, namely sorbitol.

NOT generally recommended in children <1 year.

Monitor for active bowel sounds before administering;
Drowsy, unconscious or comatose patient (ensure that airway is protected);
Decreased peristalsis (administer within 1 hour of ingestion);
Caution during multiple doses due to danger of intestinal
impaction (reduce initial dose to half to prevent impaction;
Lavage should be followed by sodium sulfate cathartic).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Black stools, blackening of teeth and mouth, colicky abdominal pain (discomfort, swelling), constipation, nausea,
vomiting

Less Common:
Diarrhea, hypotension

Rare:
Bowel obstruction, charcoal embolism, hypoglycemia, hypothermia, pneumonitis (due to aspiration)

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:29:59 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Laxatives, e.g., Mannitol, Sorbitol (volume depletion; electrolyte
abnormalities)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Activated Charcoal:Food, e.g., Milk, Ice Cream, Sherbet (decreased adsorptive
capacity)

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs due to decreased absorption, reducing systemic circulation:
Anti-epileptics, Oral Contraceptives, Other Charcoal Interactants, e.g., Digoxin, Paracetamol, Furosemide,
Salicylates, Sulfonylureas, Sulfones, Tetracyclines, Theophylline, Tricyclic Antidepressants

Mechanism of Action

A fine, smooth, odorless, tasteless, black powder, prepared from the carbonization of organic matter. Activated
charcoal reduces drug or poison absorption either by binding to the drug in the GI tract or by interrupting its entry
into the enterohepatic recirculation.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 3 of 3