April 24, 2026, 10:30:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ALBUMIN, HUMAN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05AA01

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Blood and Related Products

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 20%, 50 mL bottle (Rx)

IV › 20%, 100 mL bottle (Rx)

IV › 25%, 50 mL bottle (Rx)

IV › 25%, 100 mL bottle (Rx)

IV › 25%, 50 mL plastic bag (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 20%, 50 mL bottle (Rx)

NOTE: Dose depends on the size of the patient, the severity of trauma or illness, and on continuing fluid and
protein losses. Determine dose required based on measures of adequacy of circulating volume and NOT plasma
albumin levels. INTRAVENOUS Hemolytic disease of the newborn: by IV infusion, INFANT, 1 g/kg per dose of 25%
albumin prior to or during exchange transfusion.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:30:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IV › 20%, 50 mL bottle (Rx)

For IV administration only. Use within 4 hours after entering package. Discard unused portion. In emergencies, may
administer as rapidly as necessary to improve clinical condition. Do NOT use sterile water to dilute albumin
solutions, as this has been associated with hypotonic-associated hemolysis. Do NOT use with ethanol or protein
hydrolysates as precipitation may form. Do NOT use solution if it is turbid or contains a deposit. Use within 4 hours
after opening vial. Discard unused portion. After initial volume replacement: 5% albumin: Do not exceed 2–4
mL/minute in patients with normal plasma volume or 5–10 mL/minute in patients with hypoproteinemia. If
unavailable, it may be prepared by diluting 25% human albumin with NS or D5W. 25% albumin: Do not exceed 1
mL/minute in patients with normal plasma volume or 2–3 mL/minute in patients with hypoproteinemia. May by
diluted with NS or D5W. NOTE: Rapid infusion may cause vascular overload.

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
In chronic renal insufficiency, receiving albumin solution may be at risk for accumulation of aluminum and potential
toxicities.

Indications

Management of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia associated with hemolytic disease of the newborn.

Contraindications

Patients at risk of volume overload (e.g., patients with renal impairment, severe anemia, heart failure); dilution with
sterile water for injection.

Precautions

WARNING: Parenteral product may contain aluminum. Toxic aluminum concentrations may be seen with high doses,
prolonged use, or renal dysfunction.

Monitor for adequate hydration electrolytes level in patients receiving hyperosmotic solutions of albumin;
Anaphylaxis (discontinue immediately if allergic or anaphylactic reactions are suspected); Hemodynamic effects
(closely monitor hemodynamic parameters); Hypervolemia or hemodilution (use with caution; adjust rate of
administration per hemodynamic status and solution concentration; observe for signs of hypervolemia, such as
pulmonary edema); Cardiovascular disease (avoid rapid infusions; may cause circulatory overload and pulmonary
edema; discontinue at first signs of cardiovascular overload); Hepatic impairment; Renal impairment; Critical illness;
sodium restricted patients (use with caution); Premature neonates; Lactation (use with caution).

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:30:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Anaphylactoid reactions, fever, chills, rash, nausea, vomiting, tachycardia, hypotension.
Less Common: Anaphylaxis, urticaria, pruritus, angioneurotic edema, erythema or flushing, dysguesia, increased
salivation, hyperhidrosis, headache, confusion, loss of consciousness, pulmonary edema, dyspnea, bronchospasm.
Rare: Hemolysis

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increase risk of adverse or toxic reactions of the following drugs:
ACE Inhibitors (flushing, hypotension) [for patients undergoing therapeutic plasma exchange with human albumin
replacement, withhold ACE inhibitors at least 24 hours prior to plasma exchange]

Mechanism of Action

A protein colloid prepared as a sterile solution of serum albumin by fractionating pooled plasma from healthy human
donors. Albumin is the major protein involved in maintaining colloid osmotic pressure in the blood. It is used to
restore effective plasma circulating volume and colloid osmotic pressure.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3