April 24, 2026, 10:31:44 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ALENDRONATE + CHOLECALCIFEROL (VIT. D3)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

M05BB03

ANATOMICAL

Musculo-Skeletal System

THERAPEUTIC

Drugs for Treatment of Bone Disease

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Directly Acting Agents

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 70 mg (as sodium) + 5,600 IU tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 70 mg (as sodium) + 5,600 IU tablet (Rx)

NOTE: Consider discontinuing after 3–5 years of use in patients at low-risk for fracture. Patients should receive
supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. Osteoporosis, by mouth, ADULT, 1 tablet
(alendronate 70 mg/cholecalciferol 5,600 units) once weekly.

Administration

ORAL › 70 mg (as sodium) + 5,600 IU tablet (Rx)

Must be taken with plain water first thing in the morning and =30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or other
medication(s) of the day. All food and beverages interfere with absorption. Co-administration with dairy products
may decrease alendronate absorption. Food and beverages (especially orange juice, coffee, and mineral water)
may reduce the absorption of alendronate as much as 60%. Do NOT take with mineral water or with other
beverages. Instruct patients to stay upright and not to lie down for at least 30 minutes and until after first food of
the day to reduce esophageal irritation. Swallow tablet whole. Do NOT chow or suck. Ensure adequate calcium and
vitamin D intake. If dietary intake is inadequate, dietary supplementation is recommended. Calcium: 1,000 mg daily
(men: 50 to 70 years) or 1,200 mg/day (women =51 years and men =71 years) Vitamin D: 800 to 1,000 int. units daily
(men and women =50 years); Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA): 600 int. units daily (men and women =70
years) or 800 int. units daily (men and women =71 years) MISSED DOSE (once weekly): If a once-weekly dose is
missed, it should be given the next morning after remembered; may then return to the original onceweekly
schedule (original scheduled day of the week). Do NOT give 2 doses on the same day.

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:31:44 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
In patients with CrCl<35 mL/minute, use is not recommended.

Indications

Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal females; to increase bone mass in males with osteoporosis

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:31:44 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypocalcemia; abnormalities of the esophagus (e.g., stricture or achalasia) which delay esophageal emptying;
inability to stand or sit upright for at least 30 minutes

Precautions

Bone fractures;

Bone, joint, or muscle pain (symptoms usually resolve upon
discontinuation);

Osteonecrosis of the jaw;

Gastrointestinal mucosa irritation (use with caution);

Gastrointestinal malabsorption syndrome (increased doses of vitamin D supplementation may be required; monitor
25-hydroxy vitamin D levels).

Hypercalcemia (may exacerbate hypercalcemia and/or hypercalciuria; monitor serum and urine calcium levels);

Hypocalcemia or vitamin D deficiency (has been reported; correct hypocalcemia and/or vitamin D deficiency prior to
therapy initiation; ensure adequate calcium and vitamin D intake).

Renal impairment (use with caution);

Hepatic impairment (cholecalciferol may not be adequately absorbed in patients who have malabsorption due to
inadequate bile production);

Elderly (advise patient to report any lower extremity, jaw, or muscle pain that cannot be explained or lasts longer than
2 weeks; if on concomitant diuretic therapy, closely monitor serum electrolytes).

Pregnancy (not known if it crosses the placenta; fetal exposure is expected; most sources recommend
discontinuation in women of reproductive potential as early as possible prior to a planned pregnancy; use in
premenopausal women should be reserved for rapid bone loss; monitor exposed infants for hypocalcemia after
birth);

Lactation (not known if excreted into breast milk).

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:31:44 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Headache, hypocalcemia, abdominal pain, hypophosphatemia, acid regurgitation, nausea, dyspepsia,
flatulence, diarrhea, constipation, GERD, esophageal ulcer, abdominal distension, gastritis, vomiting, dysphagia,
gastric ulcer, melena, musculoskeletal pain, muscle cramps

Less Common: Alopecia, angioedema, anastomotic ulcer, atrial fibrillation, dizziness, duodenal ulcer, dysgeusia,
episcleritis, erosive esophagitis, erythema, esophageal perforation, esophageal spasm, esophageal ulcer,
esophagitis, joint swelling, exacerbation of asthma, femur fracture, flu-like symptoms, hypocalcemia (symptomatic),
hypersensitivity reaction, lymphocytopenia, malaise, malignant neoplasm of esophagus, oropharyngeal ulcer, myalgia
or arthralgia (occasionally severe), ostealgia, osteonecrosis (jaw), peripheral edema, pruritus, skin rash, Stevens-
Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, vertigo, fever, weakness

Rare: Scleritis, skin photosensitivity, uveitis

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Alendronate: Aminoglycosides (hypocalcemic effect), Aspirin (upper GI
adverse events), NSAIDs (GI ulceration; nephrotoxicity), Systemic Angiogenesis Inhibitors (osteonecrosis of the jaw)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Cholecalciferol: Danazol (hypercalcemic effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Cardiac Glycosides e.g. Digoxin (arrhythmogenic
effect), Deferasirox (GI ulceration, irritation, or bleeding)
Reduces therapeutic effect of Alendronate: Proton Pump Inhibitors

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Cholecalciferol: Multivitamins / Fluoride with ADE, Other Vitamin D
Analogs
Reduces therapeutic effect of Parathyroid Hormone (interferes with normalization of blood calcium concentrations)

TEST INTERACTIONS. May interfere with diagnostic imaging agents such as technetium-99m-diphosphonate in bone
scans.

Mechanism of Action

Alendronate is a bisphosphonate, which inhibits bone resorption via actions on osteoclasts or on osteoclast
precursors.

Cholecalciferol is a fat-soluble vitamin D, which helps increase GI absorption of calcium and its assimilation into
bones.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 4 of 4