April 24, 2026, 10:31:38 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ALENDRONATE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

M05BA04

ANATOMICAL

Musculo-Skeletal System

THERAPEUTIC

Drugs for Treatment of Bone Disease

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Directly Acting Agents

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 10 mg tablet (as sodium salt) (Rx)

ORAL › 70 mg tablet (as sodium salt) (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 10 mg tablet (as sodium salt) (Rx)

NOTE: Consider discontinuing after 3–5 years of use in patients at low-risk for fracture. Patients should receive
supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. Osteoporosis, prophylaxis, by mouth, ADULT
(postmenopausal female), 5 mg once daily or 35 mg once weekly. Osteoporosis, treatment, by mouth, ADULT
(postmenopausal female), 10 mg once daily or 70 mg once weekly; ADULT (male), 10 mg once daily or 70 mg once
weekly. Paget’s disease of the bone, by mouth, ADULT, 40 mg once daily for 6 months. Corticosteroid-induced
osteoporosis, by mouth, ADULT,5 mg daily; ADULT (postmenopausal female not receiving estrogen) 10 mg daily.
RE-TREATMENT: Following a 6-month post-treatment evaluation period, treatment with alendronate may be
considered in patients who have relapsed based on increases in serum alkaline phosphatase, which should be
measured periodically. Re-treatment may also be considered in those who failed to normalize their serum alkaline
phosphatase.

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:31:38 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

ORAL › 10 mg tablet (as sodium salt) (Rx)

Must be taken with plain water first thing in the morning and =30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or other
medication(s) of the day. All food and beverages interfere with absorption. Co-administration with dairy products
may decrease alendronate absorption. Food and beverages (especially orange juice, coffee, and mineral water)
may reduce the absorption of alendronate as much as 60%. Do NOT take with mineral water or with other
beverages. Instruct patients to stay upright and not to lie down for at least 30 minutes and until after first food of
the day to reduce esophageal irritation. Swallow tablet whole. Do NOT chow or suck. MISSED DOSE (once weekly): If
a once-weekly dose is missed, it should be given the next morning after remembered. May then return to the
original onceweekly schedule (original scheduled day of the week). Do NOT give 2 doses on the same day.

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
In patients with CrCl<35 mL/minute, use is not recommended.

Indications

Treatment and prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal females and males; treatment of Paget’s disease of
the bone in patients who are symptomatic, at risk for future complications, or with alkaline phosphatase =2 times the
upper limit of normal; treatment of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in males and females with low bone mineral
density who are receiving a daily dosage =7.5 mg of prednisone (or equivalent)

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:31:38 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypocalcemia; abnormalities of the esophagus (e.g., stricture, achalasia) which delay esophageal emptying; inability
to stand or sit upright for at least 30 minutes

Precautions

Bone fractures (atypical femur fractures have been reported, including subtrochanteric femur and diaphyseal femur;
may cause prodromal pain weeks or months before the fracture occurs); bone, joint, or muscle pain (symptoms
usually resolve upon discontinuation);

Osteonecrosis of the jaw;

Gastrointestinal mucosa irritation;

Hypocalcemia (has been reported; correct hypocalcemia prior to therapy initiation; ensure adequate calcium and
vitamin D intake);

Renal impairment;

Elderly (advise patient to report any lower extremity, jaw, or muscle pain that cannot be explained or lasts longer than
2 weeks);

Pregnancy (discontinue use in women of reproductive potential as early as possible prior to a planned pregnancy;
use in premenopausal women should be reserved for rapid bone loss; monitor exposed infants for hypocalcemia
after birth);

Lactation (not known if excreted into breast milk).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Headache, hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, abdominal pain, acid regurgitation, dyspepsia, nausea,
flatulence, diarrhea, gastroesophageal reflux disease, constipation, abdominal distension, gastritis, vomiting,
dysphagia, gastric ulcer, melena, musculoskeletal pain, muscle cramps, esophageal ulcer / stricture / erosions

Less Common: Alopecia, anastomotic ulcer, angioedema, atrial fibrillation, dizziness, duodenal ulcer, dysgeusia,
episcleritis, erythema, erosive esophagitis, esophageal perforation, esophageal spasm, esophageal ulcer,
esophagitis, exacerbation of asthma, femur fracture, fever, flu-like symptoms, hypocalcemia (symptomatic),
hypersensitivity reaction, joint swelling, lymphocytopenia, malaise, malignant neoplasm of esophagus, myalgia or
arthralgia (occasionally severe), oropharyngeal ulcer; ostealgia, osteonecrosis (jaw), peripheral edema, pruritus, skin
rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, vertigo, weakness

Rare: Scleritis, skin photosensitivity, uveitis

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:31:38 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Alendronate: Aminoglycosides e.g. Streptomycin (hypocalcemic effect),
Aspirin (upper GI adverse events), NSAIDs (GI ulceration; nephrotoxicity), Systemic Angiogenesis Inhibitors
(osteonecrosis of the jaw)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Deferasirox (GI ulceration, irritation, or bleeding)
Reduces therapeutic effect of Alendronate: Proton Pump Inhibitors

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases serum concentration of Alendronate [if concomitant use cannot be avoided, separate administration
times by at least 30 minutes]: Antacids [except Magaldrate, Sodium Bicarbonate], Calcium Salts, Iron Salts [except
Ferric Carboxymaltose, Ferric Gluconate, Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate, Ferumoxytol, Iron Dextran Complex, Iron
Sucrose], Magnesium Salts, Multivitamins / Minerals with ADEK, Folate, Iron, Multivitamins / Minerals with AE, no Iron
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Parathyroid Hormone (interferes with normalization of blood
calcium concentrations)

TEST INTERACTIONS. May interfere with diagnostic imaging agents such as technetium-99m-diphosphonate in bone
scans

Mechanism of Action

A bisphosphonate, which inhibits bone resorption via actions on osteoclasts or on osteoclast precursors. The use of
this drug can indirectly increase bone mineral density.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 4 of 4