April 24, 2026, 10:31:56 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ALL-IN-ONE ADMIXTURES (3 IN 1 SOLUTIONS / DUAL ENERGY
SOLUTIONS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05BA10

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions for Parenteral Nutrition

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV INFUSION › 400 – 2500 mL (Rx)

Concentration Variable Solution: Protein: 3-6 g/100 mL Carbohydrates: 6–15 g/100 mL Lipid: 2–5 g/100 mL Calories
Variable Electrolytes Variable

Dosage

IV INFUSION › 400 – 2500 mL (Rx)

NOTE: Individualize dose and infusion rate based on the ability to eliminate fat and metabolize glucose. Determine
bag size with regard to the clinical condition of the patient, the body weight and the nutritional requirements.
INTRAVENOUS Normal nutritional state or under mild catabolic stresses: by IV drip infusion, ADULT, 0.7–1 g/kg
(nitrogen 0.1–0.15 g/kg) daily of amino acids. Moderate to high catabolic stresses: by IV drip infusion, ADULT, 1–2
g/kg (nitrogen 0.15–0.3 g/kg); generally, 0.7–1 g/kg daily of total amino acid (nitrogen 0.1–0.15 g/kg) into peripheral or
central veins; do not exceed a rate of 3.7 mL/kg per hour (equivalent to 0.25 g glucose, 0.09 g amino acids, and 0.13
g lipids per kg); recommended infusion period is 12–24 hours or as prescribed by the physician.

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:31:56 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IV INFUSION › 400 – 2500 mL (Rx)

The solution is for IV infusion ONLY into a central vein. Correct any state of electrolyte imbalance prior to initial
administration. Observe strict aseptic procedures during insertion and manipulation to catheters to avoid
contamination. Inspect the bag prior to activation. Use only if glucose solution and amino acid solution with
electrolytes are transparent, and fat emulsion is homogeneous. Discard the bag if there is evidence of damage to
the bag, if more than one chamber is white, if the solution is yellow, or if any seal is broken. Mix the contents of
each chamber thoroughly right before use by inverting the bag upside down to ensure a homogenous admixture.
Ensure the vertical seals between chambers are broken and the contents of all three chambers are mixed
together prior to infusion. Ensure that precipitates have not formed during the mixing or addition of additives and
that the emulsion has not separated. Separation of the emulsion can be visibly identified by a yellowish streaking
or the accumulation of yellowish droplets in the mixed emulsion. If any of those mentioned are observed, discard
the admixture. Consume solution within 24 hours unless specifically stated that it is stable for a longer time.
Discard any remaining mixture after administration. Do NOT inject with same syringe containing blood at the same
time to minimize risk of false coagulation reaction. Use a dedicated line without any connections. Multiple
connections could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before
administration of the fluid from the secondary container is completed. NOTE: Use of a vented IV administration set
with the vent in the open position could result in air embolism. Do NOT use administration sets and lines that
contain di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) or administration sets that contain polyvinyl chloride (PVC) components
as these contain DEHP as a plasticizer.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Administer more slowly or at reduced dose.

Indications

Supply of water, proteins, electrolytes, essential amino acids & calories to patients by TPN when oral or enteral
nutrition is unfeasible, insufficient, or contraindicated; prevention of essential fatty acid deficiency; treatment of
negative nitrogen balance in adult patients.

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:31:56 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to eggs, soy protein, fat emulsion, amino acids, or glucose; hyperlipemia; severe liver insufficiency;
blood coagulation disorders; congenital disorder of amino acid metabolism; severe renal insufficiency without
hemofiltration or dialysis; acute shock; hyperglycemia requiring insulin over 6 units hourly; elevated serum levels
including electrolytes.

Precautions

WARNING: Preterm infants and low birth weight infants have poor clearance of IV lipid emulsion and increased free
fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion. Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of IV lipid
emulsions have been reported.

Special clinical monitoring is required at the beginning of IV infusion (serum triglyceride level should not exceed 2
mmoL/L in 5–6 hours after the administration). Carefully monitor serum glucose level, electrolytes, osmolarity, fluid
balance, acid-base status, liver enzyme level [alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and aspartate
aminotransferase (AST) during administration. Should any abnormal sign occur, the infusion must be stopped.
For long-term administration, consider additional administration of trace elements (e.g., copper, zinc) due to
increased urinary excretion accompanying IV administration of amino acids. Monitor blood cell count and coagulation
during long-term administration.
Disorders of lipid metabolism (induced by renal failure, pancreatitis, impaired liver function, hypothyroidism
accompanied by hypertriglyceridemia); sepsis; lactic acidosis, insufficient cellular oxygen supply, increased serum
osmolarity; patients who need a fluid resuscitation; patients with a tendency toward electrolyte retention.
Renal failure (carefully monitor phosphate and potassium intake to prevent hyperphosphatemia or hyperkalemia).
Patients under malnutrition state (monitor patients carefully and fine tune of the amount of additional solutions,
electrolytes, vitamins, and minerals required).
Elderly (adjust dose; reduced physiological activities).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Transient increase in body temperature.
Less Common: Shivering, chillness, nausea, vomiting.
Rare: Increased liver enzyme activity, thrombophlebitis, hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylactic reaction, rash,
urticaria), respiratory symptoms (hyperventilation), hypertension or hypotension, hemolysis, increased reticulocytes,
abdominal pain, headache, fatigue, penile stiffness.

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:31:56 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Interferes with lipase system:
Heparin (increases plasma lipolysis due to transient release of lipoprotein lipase; transient decrease of triglyceride
clearance rate at initial administration), Insulin

General incompatibilities:
Glucose in solution (may form precipitates)

Reduces therapeutic effect of Coumarin Derivatives:
Vitamin K1 [in soybean oil]

Mechanism of Action

A sterile, nonpyrogenic emulsion of essential amino acids, electrolytes, dextrose, and lipid for central venous
administration, in a three-chamber bag.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

N/A

Page 4 of 4