April 24, 2026, 10:32:02 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ALLOPURINOL

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

M04AA01

ANATOMICAL

Musculo-Skeletal System

THERAPEUTIC

Antidiarrheals, Intestinal Antiinflammatory/Antiinfective Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Directly Acting Agents

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 300 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (Rx)

NOTE: Oral doses >300 mg should be given in divided doses. Chronic gout, by mouth, ADULT, initially 100 mg once
daily, increase at weekly intervals in increments of 100 mg/day as needed to achieve desired serum uric acid level;
usual dosage range, 200 to 300 mg daily in mild gout; 400–600 mg daily in moderate to severe tophaceous gout
(maximum daily dose, 800 mg). Management of hyperuricemia associated with chemotherapy and/or radiation
therapy, by mouth, ADULT, 600–800 mg daily in divided doses; CHILD 6–10 years, 300 mg daily; CHILD <6 years, 150
mg daily. Recurrent calcium oxalate stones, by mouth, ADULT, 200– 300 mg daily in single or divided doses; may
adjust dose as needed to control hyperuricosuria.

Administration

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (Rx)

Administer after meals with plenty of fluid. Administer fluids to yield neutral or slightly alkaline urine and an output
of ~2 L in adults.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:32:02 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
Lower doses are required in renal impairment due to potential for accumulation of allopurinol and metabolites.
For patients with CrCl 10–20 mL/minute, administer 200 mg daily.
For patients with CrCl 3–10 mL/minute, administer =100 mg daily.
For patients with CrCl <3 mL/minute, administer =100 mg/dose at extended intervals.
When used in the management of hyperuricemia associated with chemotherapy, administer 50% of the dose.
When used for gout, initiate therapy at 50–100 mg daily, and gradually increase to a maintenance dose to achieve a
serum uric acid level of =6 mg/dL. Closely monitor serum uric acid levels and for hypersensitivity.
In patients with stage 4 CKD or worse, initiate therapy at 50 mg daily, increasing the dose every 2–5 weeks to achieve
desired uric acid levels of =6 mg/dL. Doses >300 mg daily are permitted so long as they are accompanied by
appropriate patient education and monitoring for toxicity. Some patients may require therapy targeted at a serum
uric acid level <5 mg/dL to control symptoms.
In patients undergoing hemodialysis, initiate therapy at 100 mg alternate days given post-dialysis, increase
cautiously to 300 mg based on response. If dialysis is daily, an additional 50% of the dose may be required post-
dialysis.

Indications

For chronic gout; management of recurrent calcium oxalate calculi (with uric acid excretion >800 mg daily in men and
>750 mg daily in women); management of primary or secondary gout (acute attack, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid
lithiasis, and/or nephropathy); management of hyperuricemia associated with cancer treatment for leukemia,
lymphoma, or solid tumor malignancies

Contraindications

Severe hypersensitivity reaction to allopurinol or any component of the formulation

Precautions

Allergic reaction (discontinue at first sign of rash);

Bone marrow suppression (use with caution);

Hepatotoxicity (ruse with caution in patients with preexisting hepatic impairment);

Renal impairment (use with caution; adjust doses as recommended);

Full effect on serum uric acid levels in chronic gout may take several weeks to become evident; gradual titration is
recommended.

Elderly (adjust dose based on renal function);

Lactation (use with caution).

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:32:02 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Skin rash, gout (acute), diarrhea, nausea.

Less Common: Abdominal pain, ageusia, agranulocytosis, alopecia, angioedema, aplastic anemia, arthralgia,
bronchospasm, cataract, cholestatic jaundice, drowsiness, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, ecchymoses, eczematoid
dermatitis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, exfoliative dermatitis, fever, gastritis, gynecomastia, headache, hepatic necrosis,
hepatitis, hepatomegaly, hepatotoxicity (idiosyncratic), hypersensitivity reaction,hyperbilirubinemia, leukocytosis,
leukopenia, lichen planus, macular retinitis, myopathy, necrotizing angiitis, nephritis, neuritis, neuropathy,
onycholysis, pancreatitis, paresthesia, pruritus, purpura, renal failure, skin granuloma (annulare), Stevens-Johnson
syndrome, thrombocytopenia, toxic epidermal necrolysis, toxic pustuloderma, uremia, vasculitis, vesicobullous
dermatitis, vomiting

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Allopurinol: Thiazide Diuretics e.g. Hydrochlorothiazie (allergic or
hypersensitivity reactions)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Amoxicillin, Ampicillin (allergic or hypersensitivity
reactions), Bendamustine (severe skin reactions), Cyclophosphamide (bone marrow suppression), Loop Diuretics

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Vitamin K Antagonists, e.g., Warfarin (anticoagulant effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Allopurinol: ACE Inhibitors (allergic or hypersensitivity reactions)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Pegloticase (blunts increases in serum urate)
Increases serum concentration of the following drugs: Azathioprine [active metabolite/s, specifically
mercaptopurine] [if concomitant use cannot be avoided, reduce azathioprine dose 1/3 to ¼ of usual dose],
Didanosine, Mercaptopurine [active thioguanine nucleotides] [if concomitant use cannot be avoided, reduce
mercaptopurine dose to 1/3 to ¼ of usual dose]
Reduces absorption of Allopurinol: Antacids [except Sodium Bicarbonate]
Reduces therapeutic effect of Tegafur

Mechanism of Action

A xanthine oxidase inhibitor that prevents the conversion of hypoxanthine to xanthine and eventually to uric acid. It
acts on purine catabolism, reducing the production of uric acid without disrupting the biosynthesis of vital purines.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3