April 24, 2026, 10:32:10 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ALPRAZOLAM

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N05BA12

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psycholeptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Anxiolytics

CHEMICAL CLASS

Benzodiazepine Derivatives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 250 micrograms tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 500 micrograms tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 1 mg tablet (Rx)

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:32:10 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

ORAL › 250 micrograms tablet (Rx)

NOTE: Treatment >4 weeks should be reevaluated to determine the service user/patient's continued need for the
drug. Generalized anxiety disorder, by mouth, ADULT, Immediate release: initially 0.75-1.5 mg/day in 3 divided
doses. Slowly titrate dose every 3-4 days until desired efficacy is reached with a maximum dose of 4 mg/day.
Assess need for continued treatment regularly as benzodiazepines should generally be used for not more than 4
weeks for anxiety disorders. Panic disorder, by mouth, ADULT: Immediate release: initially 1.5 mg/day in 3 divided
doses. Slowly increase by ≤1 mg/day every 3-4 days until desired efficacy is reached. Slowly increase by small
amounts for dosages beyond 4mg/day. Doses as high as 10 mg/day may be required for difficult cases. Assess need
for continued treatment regularly as benzodiazepines should generally be used for not more than 4 weeks for
anxiety disorders. Extended release: initially 0.5-1 mg once daily in the morning. Slowly increase by ≤1 mg/day every
3-4 days until desired efficacy is reached up to a maximum dose of 10 mg once daily. Assess need for continued
treatment regularly as benzodiazepines should generally be used for not more than 4 weeks for anxiety disorders.
Switching from immediate release to extended release: Service patients may be switched to extended release
tablets by taking the total daily dose of the immediate release tablets and giving it once daily using the extended
release preparation. Adjunct for acute mania and acute psychosis in patients who are in acute agitation, by mouth,
250 mcg-1mg every hour (maximum of 3 doses) provided that vital signs are monitored NOTE: Dose reduction:
Abrupt discontinuation should be avoided. Generally, the dose is reduced by 25% per week until 50% of the dose is
reached, then the dose is reduced by one-eighth every 4-7 days. If therapy is >8 weeks, slowly taper over 2-3
weeks. If therapy is >6 months, slowly taper over 4-8 weeks. If therapy is >1 year, slowly taper over 2-4 months.

Administration

ORAL › 250 micrograms tablet (Rx)

NOTE: May be administered with or without food. If drug upsets stomach, take with food. Immediate release
preparations: Can be administered sublingually if oral administration is not possible; absorption and onset of
effect are comparable to oral administration. Extended release tablet: Should be taken once daily in the morning;
do not crush, break, or chew. Orally disintegrating tablets: Do not remove tablets from the container until just prior
to administration. Do not push the tablet out of the foil when opening. Using dry hands, place tablet on top of
tongue and allow to disintegrate. If using one half of tablet, immediately discard remaining half (may not remain
stable). Administration with water is not necessary. Do not swallow it whole. Do not chew, break, or crush it.
Discard any cotton included in the container and reseal the container tightly after opening to prevent introduction
of moisture. BREAST-FEEDING CONSIDERATIONS: Benzodiazepines are present in milk, and should be avoided if
possible during- breast feeding. PATIENT ADVICE: May impair judgement and increase reaction time, and so affect
ability to drive or operate machinery; they increase the effects of alcohol. Moreover, the hangover effects of a
night dose may impair driving on the following day. Take only as prescribed; do not increase dosage or duration of
therapy unless otherwise instructed by a clinician. Do not abruptly discontinue therapy. For women, inform
clinicians if they are or planning to become pregnant or plan to breast-feed. Inform clinicians of any concomitant
illness, particularly depression; behavioral or mental changes, memory impairment, tolerance, or
dependence/withdrawal symptoms. SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS: In adolescent with psychotic or bipolar disorder,
Risperidone can be offered as a treatment option only under supervision of a specialist, if treatment with
Risperidone is not feasible, Haloperidol or Chlopromazine may be used only under supervision of a specialist.

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:32:10 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Immediate release: Initial 0.25 mg twice or thrice daily.
Extended release: Initial: 0.5 mg once daily.

NOTE: Elderly service patients may be more sensitive to the effects of alprazolam including ataxia and oversedation.
The elderly may also have impaired renal function leading to decreased clearance. Titrate gradually, if needed and
tolerated.

Renal Impairment:
Start with small doses in severe impairment.

Hepatic Impairment:
For service patients with advanced liver disease:
Immediate release: 0.25 mg twice or thrice daily; titrate slowly if needed and tolerated

Extended release: 0.5 mg once daily; titrate slowly if needed and tolerated.

Indications

Acute treatment of generalized anxiety disorder, acute treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia.
Adjunct for acute mania and acute psychosis, generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder.

NOTE: Alprazolam does not have analgesic, antidepressant, or antipsychotic properties.

Contraindications

Narrow-angle glaucoma, myasthenia gravis, history of substance use disorder, respiratory disorders (e.g. chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, sleep apnea), significant hepatic disease, pregnancy, labor, lactation.

Precautions

NOTE:
Muscle weakness; Organic brain changes
Personality disorder (within the fearful group) dependent, avoidant, obsessive-compulsive)
Patients may develop dependence/tolerance with long-term use.
Pregnancy (not recommended as treatment for anxiety during pregnancy, especially during the first trimester).

MONITORING PARAMETERS: Respiratory and cardiovascular status.

STORAGE AND STABILITY: Immediate release tablets: Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F). Extended release tablets:
Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F). Orally disintegrating tablet: Store at room
temperature of 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F). Protect from moisture. Seal bottle tightly and discard any cotton
packaged inside bottle.

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:32:10 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Amnesia, ataxia (especially in the elderly), confusion (especially in the elderly), dependence, depression,
drowsiness the next day, fatigue, forgetfulness, hyperexcitability, lightheadedness the next day, muscle,
nervousness, weakness, paradoxical increase in aggression, slurred speech.

Less Common: Changes in libido, dizziness, dysarthria, gastrointestinal disturbances, gynecomastia, headache,
hypotension, incontinence, salivation changes, slurred speech, tremor, urinary retention, vertigo, visual
disturbances.

Rare: Apnea, blood disorders, jaundice, respiratory depression, skin reactions.

NOTE: Patients taking this drug may experience sedation.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances the therapeutic effects of CNS Depressants e.g., Alcohol

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of SSRIs e.g.
Fluoxetine (psychomotor impairment)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases the serum concentration of Alprazolam: Itraconazole, Ketoconazole (Systemic), Estrogen- containing
hormonal contraceptives

Mechanism of Action

Alprazolam is a short-acting benzodiazepine which causes a dose-related CNS depressant activity varying from mild
impairment of task performance to hypnosis.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 4 of 4