April 24, 2026, 10:32:18 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ALUMINUM HYDROXIDE + MAGNESIUM HYDROXIDE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

A02AD01

ANATOMICAL

Alimentary Tract and Metabolism

THERAPEUTIC

Drugs for Acid Related Disorder

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antacids

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 200 mg/100 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 225 mg/200 mg per 5 mL suspension, 60 mL (Rx)

ORAL › 225 mg/200 mg per 5 mL suspension, 120 mL (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 200 mg/100 mg tablet (Rx)

Hyperacidity: by mouth, ADULT, 10-20 mL 4 times daily (maximum 80 mL daily).

Administration

ORAL › 200 mg/100 mg tablet (Rx)

Shake well before use. Best given 1–3 hours after the last meal to neutralize and buffer the acid produced.

ORAL › 225 mg/200 mg per 5 mL suspension, 60 mL (Rx)

NOTE: Antacids should preferably not be taken at the same time as other oral drugs since they may impair
absorption (interactions may be avoided by having an interval of at least 2 hours between taking an antacid and the
other drug).

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:32:18 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment: Use with caution due to risk of accumulation and toxicity.

Mild-to-moderate Renal Impairment: dose reduction is warranted.

Severe Impairment: avoid use and refer patient to a specialist.

Indications

Symptomatic relief of symptoms related to hyperacidity from heartburn, hiatal hernia, upset stomach, peptic ulcer,
peptic esophagitis, or gastritis.

Contraindications

Severe renal impairment; hypophosphatemia; undiagnosed GI and rectal bleeding; porphyria; appendicitis.

Precautions

WARNING:
Aluminum and magnesium salts may be hazardous in patients with renal insufficiency. If intensive antacid therapy is
to be used, only non- systemic (non-absorbable) antacids should be considered because of the potential danger of
alkalosis with systemic therapy.

Acute porphyria; prolonged antacid therapy may result in hypophosphatemia (i.e., decreased phosphate absorption
in the GI tract); dehydration; fluid restriction; constipation; diarrhea; hepatic impairment; renal impairment; GI
disorders associated with decreased bowel motility or obstruction; some products may contain phenylalanine;
elderly (may be predisposed to diarrhea or constipation); children.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Constipation, diarrhea, GI irritation.

Less Common:
Chalky taste, fecal discoloration, hypophosphatemia, nausea, vomiting.

Rare:
Anemia, encephalopathy, fecal impaction, hypermagnesemia, hypophosphatemia, intestinal obstruction,
osteomalacia, proximal myopathy.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:32:18 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases excretion due to urine alkalinization: Acetylsalicylic Acid

Reduces absorption of the following drugs:
Azithromycin, Chloroquine, Digoxin, Enalapril, Isoniazid, Rifampicin

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following Bisphosphonates e.g., Alendronate, Iron, Ketoconazole, Quinolones e.g.,
Nalidixic acid, Rosuvastatin, Tetracyclines, e.g., Doxycycline. [Separate dosing by at least 2 hours before, or 4–6 hours
after the antacid]

Mechanism of Action

An antacid that combines aluminum hydroxide and magnesium hydroxide to reduce effect on bowel movement and
to relieve epigastric pain from peptic ulcer through acid neutralization.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 3 of 3