April 24, 2026, 10:32:30 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

AMIKACIN (DRUGS FOR TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J01GB06

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antimycobacterials

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Drugs for Treatment of Tuberculosis

CHEMICAL CLASS

Drugs for Multidrug Resistant Tuberculosis (MDRTB)

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › IV › 50 mg/mL (as sulfate), 2 mL ampule / vial (Rx)

IM › IV › 100 mg/mL (as sulfate), 2 mL ampule / vial (Rx)

IM › IV › 125 mg/mL (as sulfate), 2 mL ampule / vial (Rx)

IM › IV › 250 mg/mL (as sulfate), 2 mL ampule / vial (Rx)

IM › IV › 100 mg (as sulfate), vial (Rx)

IM › IV › 250 mg (as sulfate), vial (Rx)

IM › IV › 500 mg (as sulfate), vial (Rx)

IM › IV › 1 g (as sulfate), vial (Rx)

Dosage

IM / IV › 50 mg/mL (as sulfate), 2 mL ampule / vial (Rx)

NOTE: Individualization is critical because of the low therapeutic index. Tuberculosis, by IM injection or IV infusion,
ADULT and CHILD, 5-7.5 mg/kg/dose every 8 hours.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:32:30 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IM / IV › 50 mg/mL (as sulfate), 2 mL ampule / vial (Rx)

For IM: Administer IM injection in large muscle mass. For IV: Infuse over 30 to 60 minutes (children, adolescents and
adults) or over 1 to 2 hours (infants).

Indications

Second line for the treatment of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis in conjunction with at least three other anti-
tuberculosis agent.

Contraindications

Cross-sensitivity may exist with other aminoglycosides.

Precautions

WARNING:
Neurotoxicity, manifested as vestibular and permanent bilateral auditory ototoxicity, can occur in patients with
preexisting renal damage in patients with normal renal function treated at higher doses and/or periods longer than
those recommended.

Aminoglycosides are potentially nephrotoxic. The risk of nephrotoxicity is greater in patients with impaired renal
function and in those who receive high doses or prolonged therapy;
Neuromuscular blockade and respiratory paralysis have been reported following parenteral injection, topical
instillation, and following oral use of aminoglycosides;
Prolonged use may result in fungal or bacterial superinfection, including C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) and
pseudomembranous colitis; CDAD has been observed >2 months post-antibiotic treatment.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Less Common: Neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, auditory ototoxicity, vestibular ototoxicity.
Rare: Arthralgia, drowsiness, drug fever, dyspnea, eosinophilia, headache, hypersensitivity reaction, hypotension,
nausea, paresthesia, skin rash, tremor, vomiting, weakness

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:32:30 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects Amikacin:
Amphotericin B, Cephalosporins, Loop diuretics, Vancomycin

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Bisphosphonates e.g., Alendronate, Carboplatin Neuromuscular-blocking agents

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
BCG vaccine, Typhoid vaccine

Enhances therapeutic effect of Amikacin:
Capreomycin

Decreases excretion of Amikacin:
NSAIDs

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Cholera vaccine

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects Amikacin:
Foscarnet, Mannitol

Mechanism of Action

Antimycobacterial drugs are used in the treatment of diseases caused by members of the Mycobacterium genus,
including tuberculosis (TB) and leprosy.
Combination chemotherapy is essential to kill heterogeneous populations of bacterial cells located in different
conditions within the host, and to prevent drug resistance.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 3 of 3