April 24, 2026, 10:34:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ANTI-RABIES SERUM (EQUINE)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J06AA06

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Immune Sera and Immunoglobulins

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Immune Sera

CHEMICAL CLASS

Immune sera

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › 200 IU/mL, 5 mL vial (Rx)

IM › 400 IU/mL, 5 mL vial (Rx)

Dosage

IM › 200 IU/mL, 5 mL vial (Rx)

Prophylaxis of rabies from suspected individuals, by infiltration, ADULT and CHILD, 40 IU/kg of body weight in and
around the cleansed wound; if infiltration of whole volume is not possible, give the remainder by IM injection
slowly (wounds in certain anatomical sites, such as fingertips, should be infiltrated with care to prevent a local
increase in pressure in the tissue). NOTE: When the volume required to infiltrate the wound(s) exceeds the
recommended dose, some clinicians recommend diluting the calculated dose in saline to yield a two- to threefold
increase in solution volume to ensure that all wound areas receive adequate infiltration.

Administration

IM › 200 IU/mL, 5 mL vial (Rx)

Administer as soon as possible, at the same time as the rabies vaccine, or up to 7 days after vaccine injection; the
remaining serum should be administered via the IM route (into the gluteal region) in a single injection. NOTE:
Vaccines should be stored within the safe temperature range of 2-8°C. Freezing is the most common cause of
vaccine damage; do not use a defrosted vaccine unless freezing is the recommended storage condition.

Page 1 of 2



April 24, 2026, 10:34:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

For the seroprophylaxis of rabies in individuals who are suspected to have been exposed to the rabies virus, when
rabies immunoglobulin (human) is unavailable or unaffordable.

NOTE: The lethal risk associated with rabies overcomes any potential.

Precautions

Do NOT administer intravenously; ensure that the needle has not penetrated a blood vessel; do not give repeated
doses once rabies vaccine is given as this may reduce the immunologic response to the vaccine; despite the high
degree of purification of the serum, it is recommended to perform a skin test before administering rabies antiserum;
if the recommended dosage is not strictly observed (i.e. overdosage), there is a risk of immunosuppressive
interference with rabies vaccine
In patients with a history of bleeding disorders, including thrombocytopenia, and patients on anticoagulant therapy.

NOTE: Immunoglobulins may interfere with the immune response to live virus vaccines.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Acute febrile reaction, injection site swelling and pain, serum sickness-like reactions.
Rare: Anaphylaxis.

Drug Interactions

Reduces therapeutic effect of Anti-rabies Serum:
Corticosteroids, Vaccines (Live, attenuated, virus)

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2