April 24, 2026, 10:34:54 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ANTILYMPHOCYTE IMMUNOGLOBULIN (ALG) (EQUINE)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

L04AA03

ANATOMICAL

Antineoplastic and Immunomodulating Agents

THERAPEUTIC

Immunosuppressants

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Selective Immunosuppressants

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 100 mg/5 mL vial (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 100 mg/5 mL vial (Rx)

Prophylaxis of renal graft rejection, by IV infusion, 15 mg/kg daily for 14 days, then every other day for 14 days, to a
total of 21 doses in 28 days; give first dose within 24 hours before or after the transplant. Treatment of renal graft
rejection, by IV infusion, ADULT, 10–15 mg/kg daily for 14 days; may administer additional alternate-day therapy, up
to a total of 21 doses; CHILD, 5–25 mg/kg daily. Aplastic anemia, by IV infusion, 10–20 mg/kg daily for 8– 14 days; may
administer additional alternate-day therapy, up to a total of 21 doses. (May refer to your institutional guideline.)

Administration

IV › 100 mg/5 mL vial (Rx)

Dilute in an appropriate infusion solution (i.e., sodium chloride 0.9% or glucose 5% plus sodium chloride at either
0.225% or 0.45%). The final concentration should not exceed 4 mg/mL Administer the appropriately diluted
infusion over at least 4 hours, via an inline filter (0.2–1 micrometer), into a vein with rapid blood flow to prevent
thrombophlebitis. NOTE: Premedication with antihistamines and/or corticosteroids may prevent or reduce the
intensity of adverse effects. A skin sensitivity test is recommended before the first infusion.

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:34:54 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Adjunct to existing immunosuppressant regimens to treat acute rejection episodes in organ or tissue
transplantation; prophylaxis in combination with several immunosuppressant agents; severe aplastic anemia

Contraindications

No information found

Precautions

Hemodialysis (clotting of arteriovenous fistulas may occur);

Hematologic effect (e.g. leukopenia or thrombocytopenia; fulminant hemolysis rarely reported).

Infection (various infections, including CMV, or reactivation of infection may occur)

Infusion site reactions (e.g. pain, swelling, or redness)

Malignancies (e.g. secondary malignancies, including lymphoma and post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease
(PTLD))

Serum sickness (anaphylaxis may occur, some fatal; respiratory distress may indicate an anaphylactoid reaction)

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common and Less Common: Arthralgia, abnormal involuntary movements, abnormal renal and/or liver function tests,
acute renal failure, chills, bradycardia, burning sensation in the soles or palms, chest and/or back pain, CHF,
dizziness, dyspnea, edema, fever, GI disturbances, headache, hepatosplenomegaly, hypertension, hypotension, iliac
vein obstruction,infusion site reactions, laryngospasm, leukopenia, malaise, lymphadenopathy, myalgia, myocarditis,
night sweats, pain, paresthesia, proteinuria, pruritus, rash, renal artery or deep-vein thrombosis, rigidity, seizures,
soreness of the mouth or throat, stomatitis, TEN, tachycardia, thrombocytopenia, tremor, urticaria, weakness,
wound dehiscence

Rare: Fulminant hemolysis

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:34:54 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following devices: Intrauterine Contraceptive Devices (infection)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Vaccines, Live (infection)
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Vaccines, Live (diminished immune response)

Mechanism of Action

Polyclonal antibodies which is active against all lymphocyte subsets. It is produced by the purification of sera from
immunized animals.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3