April 24, 2026, 10:35:28 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ARTESUNATE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

P01BE03

ANATOMICAL

Antiparasitic Products, Insecticides, and Repellents

THERAPEUTIC

Antiprotozoals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Agents Against Amoebiasis and Other Protozoal Diseases

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › IV › 60 mg vial (Rx)

RECTAL › 50 mg suppository (Rx)

Dosage

IM / IV › 60 mg vial (Rx)

Severe malaria due to P. falciparum or P. malariae, by IV or IM injection, ADULT, 2.4 mg/kg per dose; give 3 IV or IM
doses 12 hours apart (shift to oral artemether-lumefantrine and primaquine once patient can tolerate; by IV drip or
IM injection into the anterior thigh, CHILD <20 kg, 3 mg/kg per dose, dissolved in 5% NaHCO3, diluted in 5 mL D5W.
Severe malaria due to P. falciparum or P. malariae, second-line (for pre-referral to hospital), by rectum, CHILD, 10
mg/kg Severe malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale, first-line / preferred treatment, by IV or IM injection, ADULT, 2.4 P
ANTIPARASITIC PRODUCTS, INSECTICIDES, AND REPELLENTS 543 mg/kg per dose for at least 24 hours (shift to
oral artemether-lumefantrine once patient can tolerate; by IV drip or IM injection into the anterior thigh, CHILD <20
kg, 3 mg/kg per dose, dissolved in 5% NaHCO3, diluted in 5 mL D5W. NOTE: Artesunate suppository is a last-resort
drug NOT recommended for older children and adults.

Administration

IM / IV › 60 mg vial (Rx)

When administering the rectal suppository, wash hands thoroughly. You may use a disposable gloveif desired.
Remove the wrapper prior to insertion. Lie on your side with the lower leg straightened out and the upper leg bent
towards the torso. Lift the upper buttock to expose rectal area. Insert the suppository, pointed end first with your
finger until it passes the muscular sphincter of the rectum. Hold buttocks together for a few seconds. Remain
lying on your side for at least 5 minutes. Discard all used materials and wash hands thoroughly.

Page 1 of 2



April 24, 2026, 10:35:28 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

For use by the National Malaria Program as pre-referral drug for managing severe malaria cases both within the highly
endemic and at-risk areas of the country

Precautions

Hepatic and renal impairment.
Pregnancy and lactation (use with caution)

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common and Less Common:
Drug fever, transient reticulocytopaenia (reversible), bradycardia, rash, transient first-degree heart block.

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Artesunate:
Chloroquine, Mefloquine, Primaquine, Tetracycline

Reduces therapeutic effect of Artesunate:
Pyrimethamine, Sulfonamides

Mechanism of Action

A potent artemisinin-derived, rapidly-acting blood schizontocide effective against P. vivax and P. falciparum malaria.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

Not classified

Page 2 of 2