April 24, 2026, 10:37:14 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ASPIRIN (PLATELET AGGREGATION INHIBITORS, EXCLUDING
HEPARIN)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B01AC06

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Antithrombotic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors, Excluding Heparin

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 80 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 300 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 325 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 80 mg tablet (Rx)

Acute ischemic infarction: by mouth, ADULT, 80–100 mg once daily. Transient ischemic attack (early specific
treatment): by mouth, ADULT, 50–325 mg once daily. Prophylaxis of myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular
disease: by mouth, ADULT, 80–100 mg once daily. Treatment of acute MI: by mouth, ADULT, 160–300 mg once daily.

Administration

ORAL › 80 mg tablet (Rx)

Take tablets from packaging just before use. Should be taken with food or immediately after meals.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:37:14 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
For mild-to-moderate impairment (CrCl >10 mL/min), dose adjustments are not necessary.
For severe impairment, use is not recommended.

Hepatic Impairment:
Avoid use in severe liver disease.

Indications

Primary prevention of acute MI and stroke in patients with risk factors; secondary prevention of thrombotic
cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease, and following bypass surgery; management of acute MI and acute
ischemic stroke.

Contraindications

Children and adolescents <16 years (risk of Reye’s syndrome); active peptic ulceration or bleeding GI ulcers;
hemophilia and other bleeding disorders; aspirin-sensitive asthma; thrombocytopenia; ulcerative colitis; lactating
mothers; acute hemorrhagic stroke or intracerebral bleeding.

Precautions

Gastritis and GI bleeding; Asthma; Urticaria; Allergic disease; Uncontrolled hypertension; Dehydration; Gout; Renal
impairment (avoid use); hepatic impairment; G6PD-deficiency; Elderly; Pregnancy (use in third trimester may lead to
impaired platelet function and risk of hemorrhage, delayed onset and increased duration of labor with increased
blood loss; avoid analgesic doses in the last few weeks; with high doses, closure of fetal ductus arteriosus in utero
and possibly persistent pulmonary hypertension in the newborn; risk of kernicterus in jaundiced neonates; risk of
Reye’s syndrome).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Abdominal pain, asymptomatic blood loss, back pain, increased bleeding time, diarrhea, dyspepsia,
dyspnea, epistaxis, fatigue, GI irritation, headache, malaise, melena, nausea, vomiting.
Less Common: Anorexia, asthenia, confusion, dizziness, fever, flushing, gastritis, hemorrhage rectum, hemorrhoids,
hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia (children), hypotension, myalgia, palpitations, syncope, tachycardia, thirst, tinnitus,
vertigo.
Rare: Arrhythmia, convulsions, deafness, edema, GI ulcer and perforation, intracranial hemorrhage, hypersensitivity
reactions (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome); interstitial nephritis, iron-deficiency anemia, myocarditis,
paresthesia, renal insufficiency, seizures, thrombocytopenia, toxic epidermal necrolysis.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:37:14 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effects of the following drugs:
Oral Hypoglycemics (hypoglycemic effect), Phenytoin, Valproic Acid

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Anticoagulant Therapy, e.g., Heparin, Warfarin (bleeding), Corticosteroids (GI bleeding and ulceration), Valproic Acid
(increases effects on blood coagulation and platelet function)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases excretion of Aspirin by alkaline urine:
Antacids, e.g., Aluminum and Magnesium Hydroxide
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
ACE Inhibitors, e.g., Enalapril (renal impairment with Aspirin doses of >300 mg daily), NSAIDs, e.g., Ibuprofen,
Naproxen (gastric ulceration)

Reduces therapeutic effect of the Aspirin:
NSAIDs, e.g., Ibuprofen, Naproxen (anti-platelet activity of low-dose aspirin)

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
ACE Inhibitors, e.g., Enalapril (hyponatremic and hypotensive effect), Diuretics, e.g., Spironolactone (inhibition of
renal prostaglandins), NSAIDs, e.g., Ibuprofen, Naproxen (cardioprotective effect)

Mechanism of Action

An irreversible, cyclo-oxygenase (COX) inhibitor, which inhibits platelet aggregation. It is useful in the long-term
management and prevention of MI and stroke,

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C; D in 3rd trimester

Page 3 of 3