April 24, 2026, 10:37:48 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ATROPINE (MYDRIATICS AND CYCLOPLEGICS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01FA01

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Mydriatics and Cycloplegics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › 1% eye drops solution (as sulfate), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

OPHTHALM › 1% eye drops solution (as sulfate), 10 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › 1% eye drops solution (as sulfate), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

For eye refraction, into the eye, ADULT, instill 1 drop to the eye(s) for 1–2 days before the procedure or on a single
occasion 1 hour before refraction; CHILD, instill 1 drop twice daily for 1–3 days before the procedure with an
additional dose 1 hour before the procedure. For uveitis and inflammatory eye disorders, into the eye, ADULT, 1–2
drops of 1% solution to each eye up to 3–4 times daily; CHILD, instill 1 drop up to 3 times daily.

Administration

OPHTHALM › 1% eye drops solution (as sulfate), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

For topical ophthalmic use only. NOT for injection. Keep out of reach of children. Always wash hands before and
after administration. Drop-tainer bottle: Wash hands before each use. Shake once and remove the screw cap.
Invert the bottle and hold the bottle between your thumb and middle finger. (If self-administered, instruct patient
that the tips of the fingers point towards them). Tilt head back and position the bottle above the affected eye.
With the opposite hand, place a finger under the eye and gently pull down until a “V” pocket is made between the
eye and the lower lid. With the hand holding the bottle, place the index finger on the bottom of the bottle and push
the bottom of the bottle to dispense 1 drop. Do NOT squeeze the sides of the bottle. Repeat with the other eye if
needed. Replace screw cap by turning until firmly touching the bottle. Apply finger pressure to the lacrimal sac
(inside corner of the eye) during and for a few minutes after instillation to decrease risk of absorption and
systemic effects. Contact lenses should be removed prior to the administration and may be reinserted 10 minutes
after administration. Do NOT touch dropper tip to eyelids or other surfaces when placing drops in eyes to avoid
contamination.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:37:48 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Indications

For mydriasis and/or cycloplegia; for cycloplegic refraction; for pupillary dilation desired in inflammatory conditions
of the iris and uveal tract.

Contraindications

Primary glaucoma or tendency toward glaucoma.

Precautions

WARNING: Excessive use in children or certain individuals with previous history of susceptibility to belladonna
alkaloids may produce systemic symptoms of atropine poisoning.

Photophobia and blurred vision (e.g., sensitivity to light; may
last up to 2 weeks);
Elevation of blood pressure;
Children (use of 1% solution is not recommended in children
<3 months; limit use in children <3 years with Down
syndrome, spastic paralysis or brain damage to no more
than 1 drop per eye per day).
Pregnancy;
Lactation.

SKILLED TASKS. Causes dilation of pupils, which may impair
ability to perform tasks that require mental alertness,
e.g., operating machinery or driving.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Photophobia, blurred vision, superficial keratitis, decreased lacrimation, papillary conjunctivitis, contact dermatitis,
lid edema, decreased secretions from mucous membranes, restlessness, irritability, delirium, tachycardia, flushed
skin of face and neck.

Less Common:
Vascular congestion, exudate, eczematoid
dermatitis, hypotension with progressive respiratory
depression, coma, death.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:37:48 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances anticholinergic effects of Atropine by exhibiting additive effects:
Antidepressants, Antihistamines e.g., Diphenhydramine, Quinidine

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of MAO Inhibitors
e.g., Selegeline (hypertensive crisis)

Mechanism of Action

An alkaloid from Atropa belladonna that acts as an anticholinergic agent. Atropine blocks the responses of the
sphincter muscle of the iris and the accommodative muscle of the ciliary body of cholinergic stimulation, producing
pupillary dilation (mydriasis) and paralysis of accommodation (cycloplegia).

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3