April 24, 2026, 10:38:54 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

AZTREONAM

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J01DF01

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antibiotics and Chemotherapeutics for Dermatological Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Nitrofuran Derivatives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › {Reserve} 1 g powder (Rx)

Dosage

IV › {Reserve} 1 g powder (Rx)

Hospital-acquired and ventilator-associated pneumonia, not at high risk of mortality but with factors increasing
the likelihood of MRSA, by IV push/ infusion, ADULT, 2g every 8 hours with vancomycin OR linezolid; High risk of
mortality and with risk factor for MDR, by IV push/ infusion, ADULT, 2g every 8 hours with levofloxacin/amikacin and
vancomycin/linezolid for 7 days. Community acute bacterial meningitis with severe penicillin allergy, by IV push/
infusion, ADULT, 2g every 6-8 hours with vancomycin. Pathogen-specific treatment, by IV push/ infusion, ADULT,
2g every 6 hours with piperacillin-tazobactam OR ceftazidime OR cefepime OR meropenem OR levofloxacin OR
ciprofloxacin.

Administration

IV › {Reserve} 1 g powder (Rx)

For IM: Administer by deep injection into large muscle mass, such as upper outer quadrant of gluteus maximus or
the lateral part of the thigh. For IV: Administer by slow IV push over 3-5 minutes or by intermittent infusion over 20-
60 minutes.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:38:54 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Refer to adult dosing.

Renal Impairment:

IM, IV: Adults: Following initial dose, maintenance doses should be given as follows:

ClCr 10-30mL/minute: 50% of usual dose at the usual interval.

ClCr <10mL/minute: 25% of usual dosage at the usual interval.

Indications

Treatment of hospital-acquired and ventilator-associated pneumonia, and pathogen-specific infections

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to aztreonam or any component of the formulation.

Precautions

Rare cross-allergenicity to penicillins and cephalosporins has been reported;
Prolonged use may result in fungal or bacterial superinfection, including C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) and
pseudomembranous colitis. CDAD has been observed >2 months post-antibiotic treatment;
Use the injectable formulation with caution in patients with renal impairment, dosing adjustment required.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Rash, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, thrombophlebitis, pain at injection site, abdominal cramps, abnormal taste,
anaphylaxis, anemia, angioedema, breast tenderness, bronchospasm, chest pain, diaphoresis, dizziness, dermatitis,
fever, flushing, pancytopenia, paresthesia, petechiae, pruritus, purpura, sneezing, tinnitus, urticaria, vaginitis,
vertigo, wheezing.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:38:54 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
BCG, Typhoid vaccine (Only the live attenuated Ty21a strain is affected.)

Mechanism of Action

They have a narrow and characteristic spectrum of activity which acts by inhibiting bacterial cell wall synthesis due to
its high affinity for penicillin-binding protein 3 (PBP-3) of gram-negative bacteria. It is also active against most
Enterobacteriaceae (including E. coli, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Klebsiella, Proteus, Providencia, Salmonella,
Serratia, Shigella, Yersinia spp. and Morganella morganii)

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 3 of 3