April 24, 2026, 10:39:29 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

BALANCED MULTIPLE REPLACEMENT SOLUTION WITH PH 7.4

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05BB02

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Affecting the Electrolyte Balance

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV INFUSION › 500 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

IV INFUSION › 1 L bottle / bag (Rx)

Composition: Na+ 140 mmol/L K+ 5 mmol/L Mg++ 3 mmol/L Cl- 98 mmol/L Acetate 50 mmol/L

Dosage

IV INFUSION › 500 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

Dose is dependent on age, weight, and degree of fluid and electrolyte loss.

Administration

IV INFUSION › 500 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

Administer by IV infusion. Contains no bacteriostat, antimicrobial agent, or added buffer (except for pH
adjustment) and is intended only for use as a single-dose injection. Discard unused portion. Inspect visually for
particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do NOT administer unless solution is clear, and
container is undamaged. Determine the amount to be infused based on replacement of losses of extracellular
fluid volume in the individual patient. Up to 3 times the volume of estimated blood loss during and after surgery
can be given to correct circulatory volume when there is only a moderate loss of blood.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Select doses with caution. Begin at the low end of the dosing range.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:39:29 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Replacement of acute losses of extracellular fluid volume in surgery, trauma, burns, or shock; adjunct to restore a
decrease in circulatory volume in patients with moderate blood loss.

NOTE: NOT intended to supplant transfusion of whole blood or packed red cells in the presence of uncontrolled
hemorrhage or severe reductions of red cell volume.

NOT intended to correct acidosis or large deficits of individual electrolytes, nor to replace blood or plasma
expanders when these are indicated.

Contraindications

Hypernatremia or hyperchloremia and related conditions (hypermagnesemia, hyperphosphatemia, edema, certain
cardiac diseases).

Precautions

Can cause fluid and/or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations, overhydration,
congested states, or pulmonary edema; Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to
monitor changes in fluid balance, electrolyte concentrations and acid-base balance during prolonged parenteral
therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation; Sodium content (use with caution in CHF,
concomitant corticosteroid use, severe renal insufficiency, and clinical states with edema with sodium retention);
Potassium content (use with caution in hyperkalemia, severe renal failure, and potassium retention); Acetate
content (use with caution in metabolic or respiratory alkalosis and severe hepatic insufficiency); Renal impairment
(monitor renal function during fluid replacement); Elderly (have been shown to secrete higher levels of ADH;
increased risk for developing fluid overload and dilutional hyponatremia).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of
injection, extravasation, hypervolemia

NOTE: May occur because of the solution or the technique during administration.

If an adverse reaction occurs, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic
countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination, if deemed necessary.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:39:29 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of hypertension and edema of the following drugs due to sodium and water retention:
Corticosteroids e.g. Prednisone

NOTE: Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist.

Mechanism of Action

A sterile, nonpyrogenic, isotonic solution of balanced electrolytes in water for injection, administered by IV infusion
for parenteral replacement of acute losses of extracellular fluid.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3