April 24, 2026, 10:39:42 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

BARIUM SULFATE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

V08BA01; V08BA02

ANATOMICAL

Various

THERAPEUTIC

Contrast Media

PHARMACOLOGICAL

X-Ray Contrast Media, Non-Iodinated

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › USP grade powder suspended in water, 340 g pouch, LDPE bag (Rx)

ORAL › USP grade powder suspended in water, 454 g pouch, LDPE bag (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › USP grade powder suspended in water, 340 g pouch, LDPE bag (Rx)

NOTE: Determine volume to be administered based on degree and extent of contrast required in the area(s) under
examination and on the technique employed. GI tract marking, by mouth, ADULT, 900–1,350 mL of prepared
suspension, 20–30 minutes prior to scheduled procedure; for improved gastric marking, consume the final 200 mL
immediately prior to the scan.

Administration

ORAL › USP grade powder suspended in water, 340 g pouch, LDPE bag (Rx)

Prepare solution to a concentration of 0.1% w/v or 0.1% w/w. To be administered on an empty stomach, free of
fluids as much as possible. Patients should be instructed to neither eat nor drink after the evening meal on the
night preceding the examination. Rehydrate patient as quickly as possible following barium study of the GI tract to
prevent impaction of barium. Cathartics may also be required. NOTE: Saline cathartics are recommended on a
routine basis, especially in patients with a history of constipation, unless clinically contraindicated. If enema tips
are used, use caution during insertion. Too forceful or deep insertion may cause tearing or perforation of the
rectum. If balloon retention tips are used, inflate under fluoroscopic control by qualified personnel. NOTE: Use
caution to avoid over-inflation. Overfilling or asymmetrical filling with tip displacement may occur, which can lead
to rectal perforation or barium granulomas.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:39:42 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Patients with history of food aspiration:
Administer initially small amounts such as ½ teaspoon and carefully observe swallowing under fluoroscopic control.

Obesity and patients with delayed transit:
Increase total volume up to 1,800 mL.

Indications

Radiographical contrast media for upper and lower gastrointestinal procedures by conventional x-ray or computed
tomography

Contraindications

Proximal to a known obstruction of the colon; known or suspected GI perforation.

Precautions

WARNING:
MRI Studies. Diagnostic procedures involving the use of radiopaque contrast agents should be carried out under the
direction of personnel with the requisite training and a thorough knowledge of the particular procedure to be
performed.

Allergic Reactions. A history of bronchial asthma, atopy, or a previous reaction to a contrast agent, warrant special
attention. Use with caution in severely debilitated patients and in those with marked hypertension or advanced
cardiac disease.

History of food aspiration (barium swallow studies required);
Pregnancy (use radiographic procedures only if deemed essential).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Less Common:
weakness, pallor, tinnitus, diaphoresis, bradycardia

Rare:
Aspiration pneumonitis, barium impaction, granuloma formation, intravasation, embolization, peritonitis, vasovagal
episodes, syncopal episodes, fatalities, generalized pruritus, erythema, urticaria, laryngeal edema, bronchospasm,
hypotension, peripheral vasodilation, hypotension, reflex tachycardia, dyspnea, agitation, confusion, cyanosis,
unconsciousness, severe stomach cramps (transient), diarrhea (transient)

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:39:42 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

No information found
TEST INTERACTION. May appear as a negative GI marker with certain pulse sequences in MR studies

Mechanism of Action

Powder for suspension that acts as a positive radio contrast agent for radiographic studies. Barium sulfate is not
absorbed or metabolized and is eliminate from the GIT unchanged

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

Not classified

Page 3 of 3