April 24, 2026, 10:39:54 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

BCG VACCINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J07AN01

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Vaccines

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Bacterial Vaccines

CHEMICAL CLASS

Drugs for Tuberculosis

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

I-DERMAL › Freeze-dried power, 100 micrograms/0.1 mL, 1 mL vial (Rx)

I-DERMAL › Freeze-dried power, 100 micrograms/0.1 mL, 1.5 mL vial (Rx)

I-DERMAL › Freeze-dried power, 100 micrograms/0.1 mL, 2 mL vial (Rx)

I-DERMAL › 500 microgram/mL vial + 1 mL diluent in ampule, 20 doses (Rx)

Dosage

I-DERMAL › Freeze-dried power, 100 micrograms/0.1 mL, 1 mL vial (Rx)

Immunization against tuberculosis, by ID injection, ADULT and CHILD >12 months 0.1 mL; INFANT up to 12 months,
0.05 mL. NOTE: Tuberculin test must be done before vaccination (except in infants <6 months); give vaccine if
induration is <5 mm 48-72 hours after dose of 10 tuberculin units. Vaccine is preferably given at birth, or any time
after birth; may be given at the same time as other live vaccines, if not given simultaneously, should be given 4
weeks apart; when given to infants, no need to delay primary immunizations.

Administration

I-DERMAL › Freeze-dried power, 100 micrograms/0.1 mL, 1 mL vial (Rx)

Give by ID injection. Stretch skin between thumb and finger above the insertion of the deltoid muscle onto the
humerus. Store at 2-8°C. Freezing is the most common cause of vaccine damage. Do NOT use a defrosted vaccine
unless freezing is the recommended storage condition.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:39:54 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Active immunization against tuberculosis

Contraindications

Known hypersensitivity to the vaccine or any of its components; previous TB infection, or tuberculin reactions >5
mm; HIV infection; significant fever (give at least 1 month after fever subsides); patients receiving
immunosuppressive therapy; primary and secondary immune deficiency states; generalized septic skin conditions;
burns; pregnancy.

Precautions

Eczema and scabies;
Patients at high risk for HIV infection.
Pregnancy (first trimester: theoretical risk of congenital malformations; but the need for vaccination may,
sometimes, outweigh the possible risk to fetus)

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Enlargement of regional lymph nodes, ulcer at injection site (2–6 weeks after vaccination)
Less Common: Fainting, fever, injection site reactions (pain, redness, itching, small hard lump that may persist for
some weeks)
Rare: Abscess, allergic reactions including anaphylaxis, disseminated infection, keloid formation, lymphadenitis,
osteiti

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:39:54 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Other vaccines and immunoglobulins [administer at least 4 weeks apart]

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Anti-infectives
Immunosuppressive Agents e.g. Corticosteroids Antineoplastic (decreases antibody response)

TEST INTERACTION. May suppress response to tuberculin test if given within 4–6 weeks of vaccination.

Mechanism of Action

A vaccine prepared from bacillus Calmette-Guerin, an attenuated strain of Mycobacterium bovis, which reduces the
incidence of meningeal and military TB in early childhood.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3