April 24, 2026, 10:39:59 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

BEDAQUILINE FUMARATE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J04AK05

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antimycobacterials

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Drugs for Treatment of Tuberculosis

CHEMICAL CLASS

Drugs for Tuberculosis

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (Rx)

Note: Prior to treatment with Bedaquiline, obtain susceptibility information against M. tuberculosis, ECG, serum
electrolyte concentrations and liver function tests. Combination therapy, by mouth, ADULT (≥18 years), 400 mg
once daily for the first 2 weeks, followed by 200 mg orally 3 times per week (at least 48 hours between doses) for
22 weeks. The total duration of therapy is 24 weeks. Combination therapy, by mouth, CHILD (12 - 18 years, ≥30 kg
body weight), 400 mg once daily for the first 2 weeks, followed by 200 mg orally 3 times per week (at least 48 hours
between doses) for 22 weeks. The total duration of therapy is 24 weeks. (off label use but dose recommendation
from the WHO).

Administration

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (Rx)

Take Bedaquiline with food. Administer by directly observed therapy and used only in combination with other anti-
mycobacterial drugs. Emphasize the need for compliance with full course of therapy.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:39:59 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Lactation: Monitor infants for signs of hepatotoxicity.

Bedaquiline may be present in breast milk.

Pediatric: Safety and effectiveness of Bedaquiline have not been established for those <12 years of age and <30 kg
body weight.

Hepatic: For severe impairment, use with caution and monitor for adverse reactions.

Renal: Use with caution.

Indications

Treatment of pulmonary multi-drug resistant tuberculosis in combination with other drugs.

Contraindications

None.

Precautions

Resistance to Bedaquiline: Use only in combination with other MDR-TB treatment.

WARNING:
An INCREASED RISK OF DEATH was seen with Bedaquiline use among adults. Only use Bedaquiline for those ≥12
years of age when an effective treatment regimen cannot be otherwise provided.

WARNING:
Bedaquiline can PROLONG THE QT INTERVAL.
Avoid use with drugs that may cause additive QT prolongation. Obtain and monitor ECG and serum electrolytes.
Discontinue if significant ventricular arrhythmia or if QTcF interval prolongation of greater than 500 ms develops.
Hepatotoxicity: Monitor symptoms (fatigue, anorexia, nausea, jaundice, dark urine, liver tenderness, hepatomegaly)
and liver function tests; test for viral hepatitis; Discontinue other hepatotoxic drugs.

STORAGE AND STABILITY.
Store at 25°C, excursions permitted between 15°C and 30°C. Keep out of reach of children.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:39:59 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Incidence ≥10%: ADULT, nausea, arthralgia, headache, hemoptysis and chest pain, CHILD,arthralgia, nausea,
abdominal pain.

Less common:
Incidence <10%: Anorexia, increased transaminases, rash, and increased blood amylase.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases AUC of Bedaquiline: Lopinavir/ritonavir

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces the therapeutic effect of Bedaquiline: Strong CYP3A4 Inducers (rifampin, rifapentine, rifabutin), moderate
CYP3A4 Inducers (antiretroviral drugs: efavirenz)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Bedaquiline:
CYP3A4 Inhibitors (ketoconazole, itraconazole), QT Prolonging drugs (ketoconazole, clofazimine)

Mechanism of Action

Bedaquiline fumarate is diarylquinoline antimycobacterial drug that inhibits mycobacterial ATP synthase, by binding
to subunit c of the enzyme, blocking the energy generation of M. tuberculosis.

Page 3 of 3