April 24, 2026, 10:40:15 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

BERACTANT

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

Not available

ANATOMICAL

Respiratory System

THERAPEUTIC

Other Respiratory System Products

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Cough Suppressants, Excluding Combinations with Expectorants

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IT › 25 mg/mL suspension, 4 mL vial (intrathecal) (Rx)

IT › 25 mg/mL suspension, 8 mL vial (intrathecal) (Rx)

Dosage

IT › 25 mg/mL suspension, 4 mL vial (intrathecal) (Rx)

Respiratory distress, prophylactic treatment, by endotracheal injection, PREMATURE INFANT, 4 mL/kg(100 mg
phospholipids/kg) as soon as possible; as many as 4 doses may be administered during the first 48 hours of life, no
more frequently than 6 hours apart. NOTE: The need for additional doses is determined by evidence of continuing
respiratory distress; if the infant is still intubated and requiring at least 30% inspired oxygen to maintain a PaO2
≤80 torr. Respiratory distress, rescue treatment, by endotracheal injection, PREMATURE INFANT, 4 mL/kg (100 mg
phospholipids/kg) as soon as the diagnosis of RDS is made, may repeat if needed, no more frequently than every 6
hours to a maximum of 4 doses.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:40:15 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IT › 25 mg/mL suspension, 4 mL vial (intrathecal) (Rx)

For endotracheal administration only. Administer endotracheally by instillation through a 5-French end-hole
catheter inserted into the infant's endotracheal tube. Administer the dose in four 1 mL/kg aliquots. Each quarter-
dose is instilled over 2–3 seconds followed by at least 30 seconds of manual ventilation or until stable. Each
quarter-dose is administered with the infant in a different position. Slightly downward inclination with head
turned to the right, then repeat with head turned to the left, then slightly upward inclination with head turned to
the right, then repeat with head turned to the left. Following administration of 1 full dose, withhold suctioning for 1
hour unless signs of significant airway obstruction. Suction infant prior to administration. Inspect solution to
verify complete mixing of the suspension. Mixture may be swirled gently. Do NOT SHAKE. Do NOT filter dose and
avoid shaking. Rapidly affects oxygenation and lung compliance. Use is restricted to highly supervised clinical
setting with immediately available clinicians experienced in intubation and ventilatory management of premature
infants.

Dose Adjustment

Transient adverse effects such as transient episodes of bradycardia and decreased oxygen saturation occurAcute
changes in oxygenation and lung compliance (produces rapid improvements in lung oxygenation and compliance that
may require frequent adjustments to
oxygen delivery and ventilator settings).

Indications

Prevention and treatment of respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) in premature infants

NOTE: Beractant is only indicated for use in premature infants.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Transient bradycardia, oxygen desaturation

Less Common:
Apnea, endotracheal tube blockage, hypercarbia, hypertension, hypocarbia, hypotension, pallor, pulmonary air leaks,
pulmonary interstitial emphysema, increased probability of post-treatment nosocomial sepsis, vasoconstriction

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:40:15 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Beractant:
Bretylium (AV blockade), Ruxolitinib (bradycardic effect)Tofacitinib (bradycardic effect)
Other Bradycardia-causing Agents

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Ivabradine (bradycardic effect), Lacosamide (AV blocking effect

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Ceritinib (bradycardic effect)

Mechanism of Action

NOTE: Restricted to tertiary hospitals with adequately
trained neonatologist and facilities for neonatal intensive
care
A respiratory surfactant that replaces deficient or ineffective
endogenous lung surfactant in neonates with respiratory
distress syndrome (RDS) or in neonates at risk of
developing RDS. Surfactants prevent the alveoli from
collapsing during expiration by lowering surface tension
between air and alveolar surfaces.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

Not classified

Page 3 of 3