April 24, 2026, 10:43:53 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

BIPERIDEN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N04AA02

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Anti-Parkinson Drugs

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Anticholinergics (Anti-Parkinson)

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 2 mg tablet (as hydrochloride) (Rx)

IM › IV › 5 mg/mL (as lactate), 1 mL ampule (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 2 mg tablet (as hydrochloride) (Rx)

Parkinsonism, by mouth, ADULT, 2 mg every 8 or 6 hours, with initial dose of 0.5–1 mg daily, gradually increase by 0.5
mg every 5–6 days until optimum dose (maximum, 16 mg daily). Drug-induced extrapyramidal disorders, by mouth,
ADULT, 1–4 mg daily, in single or 2 divided doses; CHILD >3 years, 0.02–0.05 mg/kg per dose every 8–12 hours; by IM
injection or slow IV infusion, ADULT, 10 to 20 mg once daily.

Administration

ORAL › 2 mg tablet (as hydrochloride) (Rx)

Should be taken with food. Do NOT discontinue abruptly to prevent acute exacerbation. Gradually taper dose.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Start with low dose and increase slowly to the lowest effective dose.

Hepatic Impairment:
For mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment, dose reduction is warranted.
For severe impairment, the patient should be referred to a specialist.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:43:53 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Management of drug-induced extrapyramidal symptoms (except tardive dyskinesia) by phenothiazines,
butyrophenones or reserpine; adjunctive treatment of post-encephalitic, idiopathic or arteriosclerotic Parkinson’s
disease.

Contraindications

Angle-closure glaucoma; untreated urinary retention; prostatic hypertrophy; myasthenia gravis; and GI obstruction
or atony; toxic megacolon.

Precautions

Avoid abrupt withdrawal in Parkinson’s disease (to prevent acute exacerbation); tardive dyskinesia; fever or high
ambient temperature (hyperthermia).

Heart diseases e.g., arrhythmias, coronary heart disease, and heart failure (may be exacerbated); hepatic impairment.

Inflammatory bowel disease (paralytic ileus); dementia (anticholinergics are best avoided; may worsen symptoms and
antagonize therapeutic effects of anticholinesterases); GERD (may be aggravated).

Elderly (more sensitive to anticholinergic adverse effects; confusion may be precipitated or worsened); children
(more susceptible to anticholinergic side effects).

Pregnancy; lactation (use with caution).

SKILLED TASKS. May impair ability to perform tasks, which require mentalmachinery. alertness, like driving or
operating

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Blurred vision, confusion, constipation, decreased sweating, disorientation, dizziness, drowsiness,
flushing, lightheadedness, dryness of mouth, mydriasis, nausea, nervousness, reduced bronchial secretions, thirst,
urinary hesitancy and retention, vomiting.

Less Common or Rare: Agitation, angle-closure glaucoma, arrhythmias, delirium, delusions, diplopia, excitement,
hallucinations, epigastric distress, hypotension, memory impairment, muscular cramping and weakness,
palpitations, paralytic ileus, paresthesia, rash, psychiatric disturbances, urticaria, bradycardia followed by
tachycardia.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:43:53 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

NOTE: Concomitant use of two or more drugs having antimuscarinic effects can increase side-effects, such as
constipation, urine retention and dryness of mouth, and can also lead to confusion especially in the elderly.

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Fluphenazine (antimuscarinic effects)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Biperiden: Antipsychotic Drugs, e.g., Phenothiazines, Haloperidol
(masking of extrapyramidal symptoms; tardive dyskinesia; long-term therapy)
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Isosorbide Dinitrate, Sublingual (failure to dissolve under the
tongue owing to dry mouth)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases bioavailability of Levodopa
Enhances therapeutic effect of Alcohol (CNS depression)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Biperiden: Anticholinergics (including central anticholinergic delirium)
Drugs with Anticholinergic Effects (including central anticholinergic delirium)
Reduces therapeutic effect of Biperiden: Anticholinesterases, e.g., Neostigmine, Pyridostigmine Cisapride
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Haloperidol Metoclopramide

Mechanism of Action

A tertiary-amine, centrally-acting anticholinergic drug, used in the management of Parkinsonism and is effective for
the treatment of acute EPS.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3