April 24, 2026, 10:44:04 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

BISACODYL

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

A06AB02

ANATOMICAL

Alimentary Tract and Metabolism

THERAPEUTIC

Drugs for Constipation

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Laxatives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (OTC)

ORAL › 5 mg MR tablet (OTC)

RECTAL › 5 mg suppository (for children) (OTC)

RECTAL › 10 mg suppository (for adults) (OTC)

Dosage

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (OTC)

Bowel evacuation: by mouth, ADULT, initially 10–20 mg the night before the procedure followed by 10 mg rectal
suppository the next morning (or 10 mg on each of the 2 nights before the procedure); CHILD 4–10 years, 5 mg the
night before the procedure and 5 mg rectal suppository the following morning. Constipation: by mouth, ADULT, 5–
10 mg at night, up to 20 mg may be given as necessary; CHILD 4 to 10 years, 5 mg at night; by rectum, ADULT, 10 mg
in the morning; CHILD ≤10 years, 5 mg in the morning. RECTAL Constipation: by rectum, ADULT, 10 mg in the
morning; CHILD ≤10 years, 5 mg in the morning.

Administration

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (OTC)

To be taken on an empty stomach. For tablets, administer the evening before if a morning bowel movement is
desired. MR tablets must be swallowed whole and not crushed or chewed. Do NOT take within 1 hour of antacids or
milk. For suppositories, administer at the time a bowel movement is desired.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:44:04 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

N/A

Indications

Bowel evacuation before investigational procedures or surgery; management of constipation.

Contraindications

Acute abdominal conditions (e.g. appendicitis, intestinal inflammatory bowel disease); intestinal obstruction; ileus;
severe dehydration; severe abdominal pain associated w/ nausea and vomiting; anal fissures or ulcerative colitis w/
mucosal damage (rectal).

Precautions

Intestinal obstruction or acute abdominal conditions such as appendicitis; inflammatory bowel disease; severe
dehydration; anal fissures, proctitis, ulcerated hemorrhoids (avoid use of suppositories).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, electrolyte disturbance, nausea, vertigo, vomiting, hematochezia.
Less Common: Irritation, proctitis (rectal)
Rare: Hypersensitivity reactions

Drug Interactions

No information found

Mechanism of Action

A diphenylmethane stimulant laxative that acts by stimulating peristalsis by directly irritating the smooth muscle of
the large intestine. It also alters water and electrolyte secretion, producing net interstitial fluid accumulation and
laxation.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 10:44:04 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3