April 24, 2026, 10:47:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

BLEOMYCIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

L01DC01

ANATOMICAL

Antineoplastic and Immunomodulating Agents

THERAPEUTIC

Antineoplastic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Cytotoxic Antibiotics and Related Substances

CHEMICAL CLASS

Other Cytotoxic Antibiotics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › IV › 15 IU powder (as sulfate), ampule / vial (Rx)

Dosage

IM / IV › 15 IU powder (as sulfate), ampule / vial (Rx)

NOTE: Doses below expressed as USP units; 1 USP unit = 1 mg (by potency) = 1,000 international units. Squamous
cell carcinomas, by IM or IV injection, 10-15 x 103 IU/m2 body surface area (BSA), once or twice a week, at intervals of
3-4 weeks up to a lifetime cumulative dose of 360 x 103 IU; by IV infusion, 10-15 x 103 IU/m2/day for 6-24 hours on 4
to 7 consecutive days, at intervals of 3-4 week. Lymphoma, test dose, by IM, IV, or SC injection, 1–2 units before the
first 1–2 doses; monitor vital signs every 15 minutes; wait a minimum of 1 hour before administering remainder of
dose; if no acute reaction occurs, follow regular dosing schedule [NOTE: Test doses may not be predictive of a
reaction and/or may produce false-negative results]. Malignant pleural infusion, by intrapleural route, 60 units as a
single instillation, mixed in 50–100 mL of NS. Extracranial germ cell tumors (yolk sac tumor, choriocarcinoma,
embryonal carcinoma), CHILD, 15 units/m2 on day 1 in combination with cisplatin and etoposide. Hodgkin’s
Lymphoma, CHILD, 10 units/m2 in combination with various chemotherapy regimen.

Administration

IM / IV › 15 IU powder (as sulfate), ampule / vial (Rx)

For IV injections, administer slowly over 10 minutes. For IM or SC administration, may cause pain at injection site.

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:47:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
In CrCl 40–50mL/minute, administer 70% of dose.
In CrCl 30–40mL/minute, administer 60% of dose.
In CrCl 20–30mL/minute, administer 55% of dose.
In CrCl 10–20mL/minute, administer 45% ofdose.
In CrCl 5–10mL/minute, administer 40% of dose.

Obesity:
Consider use of fixed doses, independent of body weight or BSA, due to toxicity concerns.

Toxicity:
If pulmonary changes occur, discontinue until determined not to be drug-related.
If the pulmonary diffusion capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) is <30–35% of baseline, discontinue treatment.

Indications

Treatment of squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck; Hodgkin’s Lymphoma; extracranial germ cell tumors;
sclerosing agent for malignant pleural effusion; treatment of testicular cancer

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:47:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

No information found

Precautions

WARNING: Should be administered under the supervision of an experienced cancer chemotherapy physician.
Administer in a facility sufficient to appropriately diagnose and manage complications.
Occurrence of pulmonary fibrosis is the most severe toxicity. It commonly presents as pneumonitis, occasionally
progressing to pulmonary fibrosis. Risk is higher in elderly patients, glomerular filtration rate <80 mL/minute
advanced disease, or patients receiving >400 units total lifetime dose or >300 units cumulative dose. Risk is also
increased in surgery patients receiving O2.
A severe idiosyncratic reaction consisting of hypotension, mental confusion, fever, chills, and wheezing has been
reported.

WARNING: Hazardous agent; use appropriate precautions for handling and disposal.

Hepatotoxicity; Renal toxicity

Pulmonary toxicity (e.g. bronchiolitis obliterans and organizing pneumonia, eosinophilic hypersensitivity, and
interstitial pneumonitis, progressing to pulmonary fibrosis)

Idiosyncratic reaction (since reactions usually occur after first or second dose, careful monitoring is essential after
these doses)

Elderly (at greater risk of pulmonary toxicity); children (has been associated with a higher incidence of pulmonary
toxicity).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Acute febrile reactions, acute or chronic interstitial pneumonitis, alopecia, anaphylactoid-like reactions
(hypotension, confusion, fever, chills, and wheezing), cough, bilateral pulmonary infiltrates, anorexia, dyspnea,
erythema, diffuse scleroderma, hypoxia (potentially fatal), pain at the tumor site, hyperpigmentation, idiosyncratic
reactions, hyperkeratosis, induration, mucositis, nailbed changes, onycholysis, rash, peeling of the skin (hands and
feet), phlebitis, pruritus, skin thickening, pulmonary fibrosis, rales, stomatitis, striae, tachypnea, vesiculation, weight
loss

Less Common: Angioedema, cerebrovascular accident, cerebral arteritis, chest pain, coronary artery disease,
flagellate hyperpigmentation, MI, hepatotoxicity, malaise, myocardial ischemia, nausea, pericarditis, Raynaud’s
phenomenon, renal toxicity, scleroderma-like skin changes, SJS, TEN, thrombotic microangiopathy, vomiting

Rare: Myelosuppression

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:47:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Bleomycin: Trastuzumab (neutropenic effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Bleomycin: Denosumab(serious infections), Filgrastim (pulmonary
toxicity)
Reduces diagnostic effect of Coccidioides immitis Skin Test

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Bleomycin: Roflumilast (immunosuppressive effect)
Enhances therapeutic effect of Tofacitinib (immunosuppressive effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Bleomycin: Gemcitabine (pulmonary toxicity), Pimecrolimus, Tacrolimus
(Topical)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Leflunomide (hematologic toxicity such as
pancytopenia,agranulocytosis, and/or thrombocytopenia), Natalizumab (concurrent infection)
Reduces therapeutic effect of Bleomycin: Echinacea
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: BCG (Intravesical), Vaccines (immune response; live virus
vaccines may progress to infection)

Mechanism of Action

Inhibits synthesis of DNA by binding to DNA leading to single and double-strand breaks. It also inhibits RNA and
protein synthesis.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 4 of 4