April 24, 2026, 10:48:16 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

BROMAZEPAM

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N05BA08

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psycholeptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Anxiolytics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 1.5 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 1.5 mg tablet (Rx)

Anxiety, by mouth, ADULT, Initial: 6 to 18 mg/day in equally divided doses. Initial course of treatment should not last
longer than 1 week without reassessment of the need for a limited extension. Optimal dosage range: 6 to 30
mg/day. Limited experience with doses up to 60 mg/day. For debilitated service patients: Initial dose: 3 mg/day in
divided doses; may adjust dose cautiously based on response and tolerance.

Administration

ORAL › 1.5 mg tablet (Rx)

May be administered with or without food. NOTE: Bromazepam requires an S-2 license for physicians to be able to
prescribe it and an S-1 license with a triplicate prescription for pharmacists to dispense it.

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:48:16 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Anxiety, by mouth, Initial dose: 3 mg/day in divided doses; may adjust dose cautiously based on response and
tolerance.

Renal Impairment:
No dosage adjustments; initiate therapy conservatively and titrate cautiously.

Hepatic Impairment:
Mild to moderate impairment: No dosage adjustments; initiate therapy conservatively and titrate cautiously.
Severe impairment: Use of bromazepam is contraindicated.

Indications

Short-term relief of symptoms of excessive anxiety.

NOTE: Bromazepam does not have analgesic, antidepressant, or antipsychotic properties.

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:48:16 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Myasthenia gravis; narrow-angle glaucoma; severe hepatic or respiratory disease; sleep apnea; history of substance
use disorder; pregnancy, labor, or lactation

Precautions

Geriatric:
Anxiety, by mouth, Initial dose: 3 mg/day in divided doses; may adjust dose cautiously based on response and
tolerance.

Renal Impairment:
No dosage adjustments; initiate therapy conservatively and titrate cautiously.

Hepatic Impairment:
Mild to moderate impairment: No dosage adjustments; initiate therapy conservatively and titrate cautiously.
Severe impairment: Use of bromazepam is contraindicated.
Precautions:
WARNING: Patients must be cautioned about performing tasks which require mental alertness (e.g., operating
machinery or driving).

Concerns related to adverse effects:
Anterograde amnesia; CNS depression; paradoxical reactions (e.g., hyperactive or aggressive behavior); sleep-
related activities.

Use with caution in:
Depression (not recommended in patients with depressive disorders or psychosis);
Drug abuse (dependence and tolerance); Withdrawal (use caution when reducing dose or withdrawing therapy;
decrease slowly and monitor for withdrawal symptoms);
Post-traumatic Stress Disorder; Hepatic and renal impairment; Respiratory depression;

Elderly (impaired cognition, delirium, falls, fractures, and motor vehicle accidents. (avoid use for treatment of
insomnia, agitation, or delirium);
Pregnancy (not recommended as treatment for anxiety during pregnancy, especially during the first trimester; drug
should be tapered if discontinued); Lactation (use while breastfeeding is not recommended).

MONITORING PARAMETERS: Respiratory, cardiovascular, and mental status; periodic CBC and liver function tests.

STORAGE AND STABILITY: Store at room temperature of 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Cardiac arrest, hypotension, palpitations, tachycardia; Ataxia, confusion, depression, dizziness,
drowsiness, emotional lability, euphoria, fatigue, headache, impaired consciousness, myasthenia, seizure, Pruritus,
skin rash, change in libido, Gastrointestinal distress, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia; urinary incontinence, muscle
spasm, Blurred vision, diplopia, respiratory depression.

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 10:48:16 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces the therapeutic effect of Bromazepam: Theophylline Derivatives e.g., Aminophylline

Enhances the therapeutic effects of CNS depressants e.g.
Alcohol

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Flumazenil (precipitate seizures)
Pramipexole, Ropinirole, Rotigotine (sedative effect)
SSRIs (psychomotor impairment)

Mechanism of Action

Bromazepam is a benzodiazepine. It has been used in the short-term treatment of anxiety disorders occurring alone
or associated with insomnia.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 4 of 4