April 24, 2026, 10:48:56 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

BUDESONIDE (OTHER DRUGS FOR OBSTRUCTIVE AIRWAY
DISEASES, INHALANTS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

R03BA02

ANATOMICAL

Respiratory System

THERAPEUTIC

Drugs for Obstructive Airway Disease

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Drugs for Obstructive Airway Diseases, Inhalants

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

RESPIR › Inhalation: DPI: 100 micrograms/dose x 200 doses with appropriate accompanying dispenser (Rx)

RESPIR › Inhalation: DPI: 200 micrograms/dose x 100 doses with appropriate accompanying dispenser (Rx)

RESPIR › Inhalation:DPI: 200 micrograms/dose x 200 doses with appropriate accompanying dispenser (Rx)

RESPIR › Respiratory solution for nebulization: 250 micrograms/mL, 2 mL (unit dose) (Rx)

Dosage

RESPIR › Inhalation: DPI: 100 micrograms/dose x 200 doses with appropriate accompanying dispenser (Rx)

NOTE: A low-dose inhaled corticosteroid (in addition to an as-needed short acting beta 2agonist) is the initial
preferred long-term control medication for children, adolescents, and adult patients with persistent asthma who
are candidates for treatment according to a step_x0002_wise treatment approach Asthma, by inhalation, ADULT,
initially 360 micrograms twice daily, some patients may be initiated at 180 micrograms twice daily (maximum, 720
micrograms twice daily), may increase dose after 1–2 weeks of therapy in patients who are not adequately
controlled; CHILD ≥6 years, initially 180 micrograms twice daily, some patients may be initiated at 360 micrograms
twice daily (maximum: 360 micrograms twice daily), may increase dose after 1–2 weeks of therapy in patients who
are not adequately controlled; by nebulization, CHILD 12 months – 8 years, initially 0.25 mg daily; If previously on
bronchodilators alone, 0.5 mg daily administered as a single dose or divided twice daily (maximum daily dose, 0.5
mg); If previously on inhaled corticosteroids, 0.5 mg daily administered as a single dose or divided twice daily
(maximum daily dose, 1 mg); If previously on oral corticosteroids, 1 mg/day administered as a single dose or divided
twice daily (maximum daily dose, 1 mg). NOTE: Titrate to lowest effective dose once patient is stable. Conversion
from oral systemic to orally inhaled corticosteroid. Initiation of oral inhalation therapy should begin in patients
whose asthma is reasonably stabilized on oral corticosteroids (OCS). A gradual dose reduction of OCS should begin
~7 to 10 days after starting inhaled therapy.

Page 1 of 2



April 24, 2026, 10:48:56 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

RESPIR › Inhalation: DPI: 100 micrograms/dose x 200 doses with appropriate accompanying dispenser (Rx)

For dry powder inhalers (DPI): Hold inhaler in upright position (mouthpiece up) to load dose. Do NOT shake prior to
use. Unit should be primed prior to first use only. It will not need to be primed again, even if not used for a long
time. Place mouthpiece between lips and inhale forcefully and deeply. Do NOT exhale through inhaler. Do NOT use
a spacer. Dose indicator does NOT move with every dose, usually only after 5 doses. Discard when dose indicator
reads “0”. Rinse mouth with water after each use to reduce incidence of candidiasis. For respiratory solutions for
nebulization: Shake well before use. Use with jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor. Administer with
mouthpiece or facemask. Do NOT use ultrasonic nebulizer. Do NOT mix with other medications in the nebulizer.
Rinse mouth following treatments to decrease risk of oral candidiasis. Wash face if face mask was used. See
Budesonide under Nasal Preparations –Decongestants and other nasal preparations for topical use in 12:
Respiratory System for other information.

Indications

Maintenance and prophylactic treatment of asthma; includes patients who require oral corticosteroids and those
who may benefit from systemic dose reduction or elimination

Contraindications

Primary treatment of status asthmaticus and acute episodes of asthma

NOTE: NOT for the relief of acute bronchospasm.

Mechanism of Action

A corticosteroid with potent glucocorticoid activity and weak mineralocorticoid activity. It controls the rate of
protein synthesis, depresses the migration of polymorphonuclear leukocytes, fibroblasts, and reverses capillary
permeability and lysosomal stabilization at the cellular level to prevent or control inflammation.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 2 of 2