April 24, 2026, 11:15:23 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

BUPIVACAINE (OTHER OPHTHALMOLOGICALS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

Not available

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Ophthalmologicals

CHEMICAL CLASS

Local Anesthetics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

P-NEURAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 5 mL vial (Rx)

P-NEURAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 10 mL vial (Rx)

P-NEURAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 20 mL vial (Rx)

INFIL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 5 mL ampul/vial (local infiltration) (Rx)

INFIL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 10 mL ampul/vial (local infiltration) (Rx)

INFIL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 20 mL ampul/vial (local infiltration) (Rx)

INFIL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 50 mL ampul/vial (local infiltration) (Rx)

I-SPINAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride) 4 mL ampul (spinal) with 8% dextrose (Rx)

I-SPINAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride) (isobaric), 5 mL ampul (spinal) (Rx)

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:15:23 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

P-NEURAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 5 mL vial (Rx)

NOTE: Dose should be individualized and varies with anesthetic procedure, area to be anesthetized, tissue
vasculature, number of neuronal segments to be blocked, depth of anesthesia, degree of muscle relaxation
required, duration of anesthesia required, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient.
Administer the smallest dose and concentration required to produce the desired result. Moderate to complete
motor block of peripheral nerves, by IV injection, ADULT, 5 mL (12.5 mg).

Administration

P-NEURAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 5 mL vial (Rx)

Geriatric, Acutely ill Patients, and Debilitated Patients: Use with caution. Dose reduction may be required. Hepatic
Impairment and/or Cardiac Disease: Reduce doses. Use an infusion pump to slowly administer local anesthetics to
or around surgical wound sites and/or near peripheral nerves for postoperative analgesia. Avoid IV injections.
Perform aspiration prior to administration. Re-position the needle until no return of blood can be elicited by
aspiration. However, absence of blood in the syringe does NOT guarantee that IV injection has been avoided.
Intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier block) is not recommended; Avoid IV injections. Perform aspiration prior to
administration. Re-position the needle until no return of blood can be elicited by aspiration. However, absence of
blood in the syringe does NOT guarantee that IV injection has been avoided. Intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier
block) is not recommended; NOTE: Duration of anesthetic effect may be prolonged by the addition of epinephrine.
See Bupivacaine under Anesthetics – Anesthetics, Local (Amides) in Chapter 10: Nervous System for other
information.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric, Acutely ill Patients, and Debilitated Patients: Use with caution. Dose reduction may be required.

Hepatic Impairment and/or Cardiac Disease: Reduce doses.

Indications

To produce local or regional anesthesia in ophthalmic surgery.

Contraindications

To produce local or regional anesthesia in ophthalmic surgery.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:15:23 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Mechanism of Action

A local anesthetic that blocks the generation and conduction of nerve impulses by increasing the threshold for
electrical excitation, by slowing the propagation of nerve impulse, and by reducing the rate of rise of the action
potential.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3