April 24, 2026, 11:15:17 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

BUPIVACAINE (ANESTHETICS, LOCAL)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N01BB01

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Anesthetics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Anesthetics, Local

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

P-NEURAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 5 mL vial (Rx)

P-NEURAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 10 mL vial (Rx)

P-NEURAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 20 mL vial (Rx)

INFIL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 5 mL ampule/vial (local infiltration) (Rx)

INFIL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 10 mL ampule/vial (local infiltration) (Rx)

INFIL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 20 mL ampule/vial (local infiltration) (Rx)

INFIL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 50 mL ampule/vial (local infiltration) (Rx)

I-SPINAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 4 mL ampule (spinal) with 8% dextrose (Rx)

I-SPINAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride) (isobaric), 5 mL ampule (spinal) (Rx)

Page 1 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:15:17 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

P-NEURAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 5 mL vial (Rx)

NOTE: Dose varies with anesthetic procedure, area to be anesthetized, vascularity of tissues, number of neuronal
segments to be blocked, depth of anesthesia, degree of muscle relaxation required, duration of anesthesia
desired, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient. Administer the smallest dose and
concentration required to produce the desired result. Local anesthesia local infiltration, by SC or IM injection,
ADULT, 0.25% up to a maximum of 175 mg; perform aspiration prior to each injection, however, absence of blood in
the syringe does not guarantee that IV injection has been avoided. Caudal block, by injection into the caudal end of
the spinal canal, ADULT, 15–30 mL of 0.25% or 0.5%. Epidural block other than caudal block, by epidural injection,
ADULT, 10–20 mL of 0.25% or 0.5% in 3–5 mL increments, allowing sufficient time to detect toxic manifestations of
inadvertent IV or intrathecal administration; or 10–20 mL of 0.5% solution, up to 1%; Non-obstetric surgery, by
epidural injection, ADULT, 10–20 mL of 0.75% solution up to 1.5% as a single dose. Surgical procedures requiring a
high degree of muscle relaxation and prolonged effects only, except obstetrical cases, by epidural injection,
ADULT, 10–20 mL of 0.75%. Peripheral nerve block, by injection onto or near the nerve, ADULT, 5 mL of 0.25% or
0.5% (maximum total daily dose, 400 mg). Sympathetic nerve block, by injection onto or near the nerve, ADULT, 20–
50 mL of 0.25%. Retrobulbar anesthesia, by injection into retrobulbar space, ADULT, 2–4 mL of 0.75%. Spinal
anesthesia, by intrathecal injection, ADULT, preservative-free solution of 0.75% in 8.25% dextrose; for lower
extremity and perineal procedures, 1 mL; for lower abdominal procedures, 1.6 mL; for normal vaginal delivery, 0.8
mL, higher doses may be required in some patients; for Caesarean delivery, 1-–1.4 mL.

Administration

P-NEURAL › 0.5% (as hydrochloride), 5 mL vial (Rx)

Do NOT use solutions containing preservatives for epidural or caudal blocks. Avoid rapid injection of large volume.
Use fractional (incremental) doses when feasible. Use an infusion pump to slowly administer local anesthetics to
or around surgical wound sites and/or near peripheral nerves for postoperative analgesia. Avoid IV injections.
Perform aspiration prior to administration. Re-position the needle until no return of blood can be elicited by
aspiration. However, absence of blood in the syringe does NOT guarantee that IV injection has been avoided.
Intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier block) is not recommended; Mixing or the prior or intercurrent use with
other local anesthetic is not recommended due to insufficient data on the clinical use of such mixtures. NOTE: A
test dose is recommended prior to epidural administration (prior to initial dose) and all reinforcing doses with
continuous catheter technique. Duration of anesthetic effect may be prolonged by the addition of epinephrine.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric, Acutely ill Patients, and Debilitated Patients:
Use with caution. Dose reduction may be required.

Hepatic Impairment and/or Cardiac Disease:
Reduce doses.

Page 2 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:15:17 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Infiltration of local anesthesia, caudal block (preservative-free), epidural block (preservative-free), peripheral nerve
block, sympathetic nerve block, retrobulbar anesthesia, spinal anesthesia.

Page 3 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:15:17 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia; use as IV regional anesthesia (Bier block).

Precautions

WARNING: Should be administered by clinicians welltrained in the diagnosis and management of emergencies that
may arise from the use of these agents. Resuscitative equipment, oxygen, and other resuscitative drugs should be
available for immediate use.

The 0.75% concentration is NOT for use as obstetrical anesthesia. Its use Cardiac arrest with difficult resuscitation
or death has been reported with its use for epidural anesthesia in obstetrical patients. Cardiac arrest has occurred
after convulsions resulting from systemic toxicity, presumably following unintentional IV injection.

Reserve use of 0.75% concentration for surgical procedures where a high degree of muscle relaxation and
prolonged effect are necessary.

Cardiac arrest and death have occurred with IV regional anesthesia administration (Bier block).

Delay in proper management of dose-related toxicity, underventilation from any cause and/or altered sensitivity may
lead to the development of acidosis, cardiac arrest, and possibly death.

Cardiovascular effects; Cardiovascular disease;

Cross-sensitivity (cross-sensitivity with amide type local anesthetics have been reported);

Chondrolysis (primarily of the shoulder joint, has occurred following continuous intra-articular infusion; destruction
of articular cartilage has occurred when infused directly into the shoulder);

Seizures (convulsions due to systemic toxicity leading to cardiac arrest have been reported);

Respiratory arrest (have been associated with rare occurrences of sudden respiratory arrest, especially when
administered near the head or neck);

Hepatic impairment; Renal impairment (substantially excreted by the kidney; increased risk of toxic reactions);

Sulfite allergy (may contain sodium metabisulfite; use with caution);

Elderly (patients >65 years may be at an increased risk for developing hypotension while undergoing anesthesia with
bupivacaine);

Children (insufficient data available on the use in patients <12 years; use with caution);

Pregnancy (no adequate and well-controlled studies);

Lactation (excreted in breastmilk).

Page 4 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:15:17 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Anxiety, anaphylactoid reaction, apnea, angioedema, blurred vision, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, chills,
chondrolysis, CNS excitation and/or depression, constriction of pupils, decreased cardiac output, depression of
myocardium, dizziness, drowsiness merging into unconsciousness, heart block, hypotension, hypoventilation,
miosis, nausea, palpitations, pruritus, respiratory arrest, restlessness, tinnitus, tremors, urticaria, ventricular
arrhythmia, vomiting, weakness.

Less Common: Backache, convulsions, cranial nerve palsy, fecal incontinence, headache, loss of anal sphincter
control, loss of perineal sensation, paralysis of lower extremities, meningismus, paresthesia, persistent anesthesia,
seizure, septic meningitis, sexual disorder (loss of function), slowing of labor, urinary incontinence, urinary retention.

Rare: Erythema, angioneurotic edema, tachycardia, sneezing, syncope, excessive sweating, elevated temperature,
anaphylactoid-like symptoms.

NOTE: Incidence of adverse reactions is difficult to define. Most effects are dose-related and are often due to
accelerated absorption from the injection site, unintentional IV injection, or slow metabolic degradation. The
development of any CNS symptoms may be an early indication of more significant toxicity (seizure).

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Bupivacaine: Lidocaine, Mexiletine (additive systemic effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Antiarrhythmics (myocardial depression)
Reduces diagnostic effect of Technetium Tc 99m Tilmanocept

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Neuromuscular-blocking Agents (neuromuscular-blocking effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Bupivacaine: Hyaluronidase
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Blood pressure-lowering agents; Hypotensive
agents (hypotension); Bupivacaine, Liposomal [administer at least 20 minutes or more apart]; Ergot Alkaloids,
Vasopressor drugs (severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents)

Mechanism of Action

Bupivacaine blocks the generation and the conduction of nerve impulses, by binding to the intracellular portion of
sodium channels and blocks sodium influx into nerve cells. This leads to lose of sensation for pain, temperature,
touch and proprioception, and eventually skeletal muscle tone.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 5 of 5