April 24, 2026, 11:45:08 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

CALCITRIOL

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

A11CC04

ANATOMICAL

Alimentary Tract and Metabolism

THERAPEUTIC

Vitamins

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Vitamin A and D

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 0.25 mcg capsule (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 0.25 mcg capsule (Rx)

NOTE: Serum calcium, phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase, and creatinine concentrations should be determined
initially, monthly for 6 months, then periodically. Serum PTH should be monitored initially and every 3–4 months.
Hypocalcemia, secondary hyperparathyroidism, and resultant metabolic bone disease (renal osteodystrophy) in
patients with chronic kidney disease: by mouth, ADULT, initially 0.25 micrograms daily; may increase dose to 0.5
micrograms daily if necessary; titrate doses as necessary to obtain target range; ADOLESCENT and CHILD 1-2
years, initially 0.25 micrograms daily. Management of hypocalcemia associated with vitamin D deficiency: by mouth,
ADOLESCENT, CHILD, and INFANT, 0.05 micrograms/kg daily (maximum, 0.5 micrograms daily) until calcium levels
normalize. Postsurgical hypoparathyroidism, idiopathic hypoparathyroidism, and pseudohypoparathyroidism
manifesting as hypocalcemia: by mouth, ADULT, ADOLESCENT, and CHILD ≥6 years, initially 0.25 micrograms once
daily in the morning; may be increased at 2– to 4–week intervals; maintenance, 0.5-2 micrograms once daily; CHILD
1-5 years, 0.25-0.75 micrograms daily; NEONATE and INFANT, 0.25 micrograms daily. Vitamin D-dependent rickets:
by mouth, ADULT, ADOLESCENT, and CHILD, 1 microgram once daily. Postmenopausal osteoporosis: by mouth,
POSTMENOPAUSAL FEMALES, 0.25 micrograms twice daily; modify dose according to serum calcium
concentration. Osteoporosis: by mouth, CHILD, 1-2 micrograms/kg daily given in 4-6 divided doses.

Administration

ORAL › 0.25 mcg capsule (Rx)

May be administered without regard to meals. Protect from light. NOTE: Patients must receive an adequate
amount of calcium while taking Calcitriol. Advise patients to have a dietary intake of calcium of at least 600 mg
daily. Calcitriol is readily absorbed from the intestine. Absorption can be delayed in patients with hepatic, biliary, or
GI disease.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:45:08 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

N/A

Indications

Management of Hypocalcemia due to secondary hyperparathyroidism, and resultant metabolic bone disease;
hypocalcemia associated with vitamin D deficiency; postsurgical hypoparathyroidism; vitamin D dependent rickets;
postmenopausal osteoporosis and osteoporosis

Contraindications

Accidental exposure; arteriosclerosis; breastfeeding; cardiac disease; dehydration; geriatric; hypercalcemia;
hyperphosphatemia; hypervitaminosis D; occlusive dressing; ocular exposure; pregnancy; renal failure; sarcoidosis;
sunlight (UV) exposure

Precautions

Renal impairment; Hepatic and biliary disease; Excessive doses; Immobilized patients.

WARNING: Administration of more than the daily requirement can cause hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, and
hyperphosphatemia.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Hypervitaminosis D, hypercalcemia, fatigue, weakness, headache, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain,
constipation, diarrhea, vertigo, tinnitus, ataxia, myalgia, arthralgia, irritability, hypercalciuria, hyperphosphatemia,
metallic taste.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:45:08 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Decreases intestinal absorption of Calcitriol: Cholestyramine, Colestipol, Mineral Oil, Orlistat
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Calcium-containing Antacids (hypercalcemia);
Cardiac Glycosides, e.g., Digoxin (hypercalcemia; cardiac arrhythmias)
Reduces therapeutic effect of Calcitriol: Anticonvulsants, e.g., Phenobarbital, Primidone, Phenytoin, Fosphenytoin

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Calcitriol: Phosphorus Salts
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Aluminum-containing Antacids (aluminum retention
and toxicity); Vitamin D Analogues (additive effects and toxicity)

Mechanism of Action

Also known as 1,25dihydroxy-cholecalciferol, it is the active form of vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol). Calcitriol is
structurally similar to calcifediol and plays an important role in maintaining calcium balance and in the regulation of
parathyroid hormone (PTH). It is the preferred form for the management of hypocalcemia in dialysis-dependent renal
failure patients.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3