April 24, 2026, 11:45:30 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

CALCIUM CARBONATE + CHOLECALCIFEROL (VITAMIN D3)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

A12AX

ANATOMICAL

Alimentary Tract and Metabolism

THERAPEUTIC

Mineral Supplements

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Calcium

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › equivalent to 500 mg elemental calcium + 400 IU vitamin D3 (OTC)

ORAL › equivalent to 600 mg elemental calcium + 400 IU vitamin D3 (OTC)

Dosage

ORAL › equivalent to 500 mg elemental calcium + 400 IU vitamin D3 (OTC)

Calcium deficiency, by mouth, ADULT, supplementary intake to achieve a total elemental calcium dosage of 1 g in 2
divided doses for male and premenopausal female patients; 1.2–1.5 g in 3 divided doses for postmenopausal
women; not recommended for children <12 years.

Administration

ORAL › equivalent to 500 mg elemental calcium + 400 IU vitamin D3 (OTC)

Administer, preferably with food, 2 hours before or after other medications. Maintain adequate fluid intake.
Administration is followed by increased serum gastric acid secretion, within 2 hours.

Dose Adjustment

NOTE: Check Recommended Energy and Nutrient Intakes (RENI) per day for Calcium and Vitamin D for dose of
different population groups.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:45:30 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Adjunct inosteoporosis; therapeutic supplementation (e.g., lactose intolerance or with milk allergy; established
vitamin D dependent osteomalacia; post-menopausal women; chronic kidney disease with or without renal
replacement therapy); hyperphosphatemia.

Contraindications

Hypercalcemia; hyperparathyroidism; renal calculi; hypophosphatemia; vitamin D toxicity; abnormal sensitivity to the
effects of vitamin D; malabsorption syndrome; renal failure or severe renal impairment; known hypersensitivity to
the preparation or any of the excipients (e.g. soya oil).

Precautions

Should not be used in osteoporosis due to prolonged immobilization, renal stones, or severe hypercalciuria;
Mild to moderate renal failure or mild hypercalciuria (supervise carefully, including periodic checks of plasma calcium
levels and urinary calcium excretion);
History of renal stones;
Patients receiving treatment for cardiovascular diseases;
Rare hereditary problems of glucose-galactose malabsorption or fructose intolerance;
Achlorhydria;
Hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria.

NOTE: Allowances should be made for calcium and vitamin D supplements from other sources.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Less Common: Hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria
Rare: Abdominal pain, acid rebound, anorexia, arrhythmia, bone or muscle pain, constipation or diarrhea, headache,
hypophosphatemia, flatulence, loss of appetite, metallic taste, milk-alkali syndrome, nausea, pruritus, rash, urticaria,
vomiting, xerostomia

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:45:30 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Decreases absorption of Calcium: Corticosteroids
Decreases absorption of Quinolone Antibiotics, e.g., Ciprofloxacin
Increases risk of adverse effects of the following drugs: Digoxin (hypercalcemia), Thiazide Diuretics (hypercalcemia;
milk-alkali syndrome with high doses)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases absorption of the following drugs: Iron Salts, Levothyroxine, Tetracyclines, Zinc Salts
Decreases serum concentration of Bisphosphonate e.g., Alendronate
Decreases therapeutic effect of Calcium Channel Blockers e.g., Amlodipine

FOOD INTERACTION:
Foods that are rich in oxalic acid (e.g., spinach) and phytic acid (e.g., whole cereals) may reduce calcium absorption
due to formation of insoluble calcium salts. Do NOT take calcium products within 2 hours of eating such foods.

Mechanism of Action

A two-component dietary supplement of calcium and fat-soluble vitamin D, which serves to increase the calcium
pool available for GI absorption and assimilation into bones.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3