April 24, 2026, 11:47:53 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

CARBAMAZEPINE (OTHER ANALGESICS AND ANTIPYRETICS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N03AF01

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Analgesics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Analgesics and Antipyretics

CHEMICAL CLASS

Drugs for Neuropathic Pain

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 200 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 200 mg MR tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 400 mg MR tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 100 mg/5 mL syrup, 120 mL (Rx)

ORAL › 100 mg capsule (Rx)

ORAL › 300 mg capsule (Rx)

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:47:53 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

ORAL › 200 mg tablet (Rx)

NOTE: MR tablets are designed to be taken twice daily due to the controlled release of the active substance.
Idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia, by mouth, ADULT, initially 100 mg 2 times daily, slowly raise the dosage until
freedom from pain is achieved (normally at 200 mg 3–4 times daily), then gradually reduce dose to the lowest
possible maintenance level; usual maintenance dose is 400–800 mg daily in divided doses (maximum, 1.2 g daily).
Painful diabetic neuropathy, by mouth, ADULT, initially 100 mg 1–2 times a day, gradually increase depending on
response; average dose is 200 mg 2–4 times daily.

ORAL › 100 mg capsule (Rx)

Postherpetic neuralgia, by mouth, ADULT, Day 1: 300 mg; Day 2: 300 mg twice daily; Day 3: 300 mg 3 times daily;
titrate dose as needed for pain relief, usually ranging from 1,800–3,600 mg daily in divided doses. Neuropathic pain,
by mouth, ADULT, initially, 300 mg on the 1st day, 300 mg twice a day on the 2nd day and 300 mg 3 times a day on the
3rd day; alternatively, 900 mg daily in 3 divided doses; dose may increase in increments of 300 mg every 2–3 days
(maximum 3,600 mg daily).

Administration

ORAL › 200 mg tablet (Rx)

May be taken during, after, or between meals. For the syrup formulation, shake well before use. Administer tablets
with little liquid. Swallow MR tablets unchewed with a little liquid.

ORAL › 100 mg capsule (Rx)

May be taken with or without food. Administer first dose on first day at bedtime to avoid somnolence and
dizziness. When given 3 times daily, the maximum time between doses should not exceed 12 hours. Do NOT
discontinue abruptly because of the possibility of increasing seizure frequency. Withdraw gradually to minimize
the potential of increased seizure frequency, unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Select doses with caution. Generally, lower doses are started.

Renal Impairment:
Use with caution. In moderate to severe impairment, reduce doses.

Hepatic Impairment:
Drug is primarily metabolized in the liver. Use with caution in advanced liver disease as metabolism is impaired.

Indications

Idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia and painful diabetic neuropathy.

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:47:53 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Atrioventricular block; bone marrow depression; acute intermittent porphyria; combination with MAO Inhibitors e.g.
Selegeline

Precautions

WARNING: Neurologic. Must be used with caution in patients with mixed seizures, including absences, which can be
exacerbated by carbamazepine. In case of exacerbation, the drug must be discontinued.

Hematologic effects (Obtain pretreatment complete blood counts with platelet counts at baseline and periodically
thereafter; discontinue if there is significant bone marrow depression); Dermatologic effects (discontinue if signs
and symptoms of severe skin reaction appear); psychosis (may activate latent psychosis); Hepatic effects (evaluate
baseline and periodic hepatic function particularly in those with a history of liver disease; may cause or aggravate
liver disease; withdraw immediately in case of aggravated liver dysfunction or active liver disease); Breakthrough
bleeding (may be seen in women taking oral contraceptives); may affect reliability of oral contraceptives, women of
childbearing age must be advised to use alternative forms of birth control.

Elderly (increased risk for adverse effects, including liver dysfunction, and confusion and agitation); Pregnancy
(increased risk for developmental disorders has been reported; rare reports of developmental disorders, including
spina bifida, has been reported; can aggravate folic acid deficiency so supplementation is recommended before and
during pregnancy; administer Vitamin K1 to the mother during the last weeks of pregnancy and to the newborn to
prevent bleeding disorders in the offspring); lactation (excreted in breastmilk; monitor infants closely for adverse
reactions).

SKILLED TASKS. May impair ability to perform tasks, which require mental alertness, like driving or operating
machinery.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Ataxia, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache diplopia, blurred vision, allergic reactions, urticaria (may
be severe), leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, elevated gamma-GT (usually not clinically relevant), elevated
alkaline phosphatase, nausea, vomiting, mouth dryness, edema, increase in weight, hyponatremia, reduced plasma
osmolality.

Less Common: Abnormal involuntary movements, exfoliative dermatitis, erythroderma, diarrhea, constipation.

Rare: Orofacial dyskinesia, oculomotor disorders, slurred speech, peripheral neuritis, paresthesia, muscle
weakness, hallucinations, depression, restlessness, agitation, confusion, loss of appetite, lupuserythematosus like
syndrome, pruritus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, acne, purpura, leukocytosis, lymphadenopathy, folic acid
deficiency, hypertension or hypotension, delayed multiorgan hypersensitivity, disturbance in cardiac conduction,
agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, pure red cell aplasia, megaloblastic anemia, pancreatitis, anaphylactic reactions,
arrhythmias, renal or urinary dysfunction.

NOTE: Particularly at the start of treatment, or if the initial dose is too high, or in the elderly, certain adverse
reactions (e.g., CNS and GI symptoms, allergy) commonly occur.

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:47:53 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Decreases bioavailability of Paracetamol
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Diuretics, e.g., Hydrochlorothiazide, Furosemide
(symptomatic hyponatremia) Isoniazid (isoniazid-induced hepatotoxicity) Neuroleptics, e.g., Haloperidol (neurological
adverse reactions)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases serum concentration of Oral Contraceptives
Incompatible with the following products: MAO Inhibitors e.g. Phenelzine
Reduces therapeutic effect of Oral Contraceptives

Mechanism of Action

Carbamazepine is an anti-seizure drug also used for neuropathic pain. It limits the firing of action potentials evoked
by a sustained depolarization in cortical neurons by slowing the rate of recovery of voltage-activated Na+ channels
from inactivation.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 4 of 4