April 24, 2026, 11:15:59 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

CARBOXYMETHYLCELLULOSE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01XA20

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Ophthalmologicals

CHEMICAL CLASS

For Dry Eyes

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops solution (as sodium), 0.4 mL bottle (OTC)

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops solution (as sodium), 15 mL bottle (OTC)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops solution (as sodium), 0.4 mL bottle (OTC)

Eye irritation, into the eye, ADULT and CHILD, 1–2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed.

Administration

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops solution (as sodium), 0.4 mL bottle (OTC)

For external use only. Always replace cap after use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or
contact a poison control center immediately. Tilt head back and drop the product directly into the eye. Apply finger
pressure to the lacrimal sac (inside corner of the eye) during and for 1–2 minutes after instillation to decrease risk
of absorption and systemic effects. Do NOT use if solution is cloudy, leaking, has particles, or changes color. Do
NOT use if neck band is broken or missing. Do NOT wear contact lenses during treatment. Do NOT touch dropper
tip to eyelids or other surfaces when placing drops in eyes to avoid contamination.

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Page 1 of 2



April 24, 2026, 11:15:59 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

For the temporary relief of burning, irritation, and discomfort due to dryness of the eye or from irritation from wind or
sun; for protection against further irritation. It is commonly used in its salt form as a viscosity enhancer and
emulsifier in food products or as a lubricant in eye drops.

Precautions

Stop use and consult a doctor if eye pain, changes in vision, or continued redness or irritation of the eye occurs and
persists for more than 72 hours.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Rare:
Allergic reaction, hives, itching, red, swollen, blistered, or peeling skin with or without fever, wheezing, tightness in
the chest or throat, trouble breathing, swallowing, or talking, unusual hoarseness, swelling of the mouth, face, lips,
tongue, or throat, change in eyesight, eye pain, or very bad eye irritation.

Drug Interactions

No information found

Mechanism of Action

A cellulose derivative prepared by the treatment of cellulose with alkali and monochloroacetic acid or its sodium salt.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

Not classified

Page 2 of 2