April 24, 2026, 11:50:29 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

CHLORHEXIDINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

D08AC02

ANATOMICAL

Dermatologicals

THERAPEUTIC

Antiseptics and Disinfectants

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Biguanides and Amidines

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

TOPIC › 0.12% (as gluconate) 50 mL (Rx)

TOPIC › 0.12% (as gluconate) 120 mL (Rx)

TOPIC › 0.12% (as gluconate) 380 mL (Rx)

TOPIC › 0.12% (as gluconate) 500 mL (Rx)

TOPIC › 0.12% (as gluconate) 4 L (Rx)

TOPIC › 0.12% (as gluconate) 5 L (Rx)

TOPIC › 4% solution (as gluconate) 50 mL (OTC)

TOPIC › 4% solution (as gluconate) 120 mL (OTC)

TOPIC › 4% solution (as gluconate) 380 mL (OTC)

TOPIC › 4% solution (as gluconate) 500 mL (OTC)

TOPIC › 4% solution (as gluconate) 4 L (OTC)

TOPIC › 4% solution (as gluconate) 5 L (OTC)

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:50:29 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

TOPIC › 0.12% (as gluconate) 50 mL (Rx)

Gingivitis, by mouth, ADULT, as 0.12% preparation, swish 1 tablespoon (15 mL) in mouth undiluted for 30 seconds,
then spit out; rinse twice daily, morning and evening, after tooth brushing Surgical hand scrub, by topical
application, ADULT, as 4% preparation, wet hands and forearms under running water for 30 seconds; scrub hands
and forearms with 5 mL of product with or without wet brush for 3 minutes; pay close attention to the nails,
cuticles, and interdigital spaces; rinse thoroughly under running water for 30 seconds; dry thoroughly. Health care
personnel hand wash, by topical application, ADULT, as 4% preparation, wet hands with water; wash hands with 5
mL of product in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds; rinse and dry thoroughly. Preoperative skin preparation, by
topical application, ADULT, as 4% preparation, apply liberally to surgical site and swab for at least 2 minutes; dry
with a sterile towel; repeat cleansing for an additional 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel. Skin wound and
general cleansing, by topical application, ADULT, as 4% preparation, thoroughly rinse with water the area to be
cleansed; apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently; rinse
thoroughly.

Administration

TOPIC › 0.12% (as gluconate) 50 mL (Rx)

Avoid contact w/ brain, meninges, middle ear or sensitive tissues and eyes. Do NOT inject or use in body cavities.
For 0.12% preparation: NOT intended for ingestion. Should be expectorated after rinsing. Do NOT rinse with water,
or other mouthwashes, brush teeth, or eat immediately after. Initiate oral rinse therapy directly following a dental
prophylaxis. Reevaluate patients and give a thorough prophylaxis at intervals no longer than 6 months. For 4%
preparation: For external use only. Do NOT use in the genital area. Do NOT use as a preoperative skin preparation
on the head or face. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a poison control
center immediately

Indications

Treatment of gingivitis; surgical hand scrub; health care personnel hand wash; preoperative skin preparation; skin
wound and general cleansing

Precautions

Gingivitis and periodontitis; Staining of oral surfaces; Alteration in taste perception; Children; Lactation

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Reversible brown staining of teeth and other oral surfaces, increased calculus formation, transient taste
disturbance, skin sensitivity, irritation of conjunctiva, mucosal irritation, burning sensation of tongue, anaphylaxis
Less Common: Aphthous ulcer, grossly obvious gingivitis, trauma, ulceration, erythema, desquamation, coated
tongue, keratinization, geographic tongue, mucocele, short frenum, stomatitis, glossitis, dry mouth, hypesthesia,
glossal edema, paresthesia, parotid gland swelling, sialadenitis

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:50:29 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

No known significant interactions

Mechanism of Action

A very potent cationic chemoprophylactic agent with broad-spectrum of activity against gram-positive and gram-
negative bacteria. It is bactericidal at high concentrations by altering the bacterial cell osmotic equilibrium and
leakage of potassium and phosphorus.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B (0.12%; mouth or throat) C (periodontal)

Page 3 of 3