April 24, 2026, 11:50:46 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

CIPROFLOXACIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J01MA02

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antibacterials for Systemic Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Quinolone

CHEMICAL CLASS

Second-Generation Fluoroquinolones

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › [Watch] 250 mg tablet (as hydrochloride) (Rx)

ORAL › [Watch] 500 mg tablet (as hydrochloride) (Rx)

IV › [Watch] 2 mg/mL (as lactate), 100 mL vial (Rx)

IV › [Watch] 400 mg/200 mL (Rx)

Page 1 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:50:46 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

ORAL › [Watch] 250 mg tablet (as hydrochloride) (Rx)

Sepsis suspect intra-abdominal source, by IV infusion, ADULT, 400 mg every 12 hours with metronidazole. Febrile
neutropenia, low risk, by mouth, Adult, 750 mg twice daily with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid until patient is afebrile
and absolute neutrophil count >500cells/μL. Antibacterial prophylaxis, by mouth, ADULT, 500-750 mg; by IV
infusion, ADULT, 400 mg every 12 hours. Uncomplicated typhoid fever, by mouth, CHILD, 30 mg/kg in divided doses
every 12 hours for 7-10 days; ADULT, 500 mg 1 tablet every 12 horus for 7-10 days. Complicated typhoid fever, by IV
infusion, CHILD, 30 mg/kg in divided doses every 12 hours for 7-10 days; ADULT, 400 mg every 12 hours for 7-10
days. Chronic carrier, by IV infusion, CHILD, 30 mg/kg in divided doses every 12 hours for 4 weeks; by mouth,
ADULT, 500-750 mg every 12 hours for 28 days. Non-typhoidal salmonellosis, Salmonella gastroenteritis, by IV
infusion, INFANT ≤3 months old, 10-20 mg/kg in divided doses every 12 hours for 7-10 days. Osteomyelitis, foot
bone, by mouth, ADULT, 750 mg twice a day, Community acute bacterial meningitis, for severe penicillin allergy, by
IV infusion, ADULT, 400 mg with vancomycin; For confirmed meningococcal meningitis and not treated with
Ceftriaxone, by mouth, ADULT, 500 mg. Orbital cellulitis, with serious allergy to Penicillin and/or cephalosporins, by
mouth, CHILD, 20-30 mg/kg in 2 divided doses with vancomycin; Stage II-IV MRSA not considered, by IV infusion,
ADULT, 400 mg every 8-12 hours with clindamycin for 10-21 days; Serious allergy to penicillin and/or
cephalosphorin, by mouth, ADULT, 500-750 mg twice a day with vancomycin for 10-21 days; by IV infusion, ADULT,
400 mg every 12 hours with vancomycin for 10-21 days. Community-acquired pneumonia, high risk, risk for P.
aeruginosa, by IV infusion, ADULT, 400 mg every 8-12 hours with azithromycin and gentamicin/ amikacin and
piperacillin-tazobactam /meropenem/ cefepime. Pathogen-specific treatment, P. aeruginosa, by IV infusion,
CHILD, 20-30 mg/kg in divided doses every 12 hours with amikacin/ gentamicin and piperacillin-tazobactam/
meropenem; ADULT, 400 mg every 8 hours with amikacin/ gentamicin; MDR Acinetobacter, by IV infusion, CHILD,
20-30 mg/kg in divided doses every 12 hours; Klebsiella pneumoniae, by IV infusion, CHILD, 20-30 mg/kg in divided
doses every 12 hours; Burkholderia cepacia, by IV infusion, CHILD, 20-30 mg/kg in divided doses every 12 hours;
ADULT, 400 mg every 12 hours; Enterobacter, by IV infusion, CHILD, 20-30 mg/kg in divided doses every 12 hours.

Administration

ORAL › [Watch] 250 mg tablet (as hydrochloride) (Rx)

May be taken with or without food; do not take with antacids, iron or dairy products.

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
For mild-to-moderate renal impairment, dose reduction is warranted; for severe impairment, the patient should be
referred to a specialist.

Hepatic Impairment:
Same dosage as in patients with normal hepatic function may be used in patients with mild-to-moderate hepatic
impairment; for severe impairment, refer to a specialist.

Page 2 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:50:46 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Restricted use of treatment of severe infections of the GI tract including MDR typhoid fever and Shigella dysentery,
chancroid; febrile neutropenia, alternative treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis; meningococcal meningitis
prophylaxis.

Contraindications

Known history of tendon disorders related to quinolone use; children; concurrent tizanidine use.

Precautions

WARNING:
Associated with an increased risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture; this risk is further increased in older patients,
usually those older than 60 years; in kidney, heart, and lung transplant recipients; and with
the concomitant use of steroid therapy. If tendinitis is suspected, the quinolone should be discontinued
immediately. Quinolones are contraindicated in patients with a history of quinolone-related tendon
disorders.
May exacerbate muscle weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis; avoid quinolones with known history of
myasthenia gravis.
History of epilepsy or conditions that predispose to seizures, myasthenia gravis, G6PD deficiency (increased risk of
hemolytic anemia),
Risk of crystalluria (avoid excessive alkalinity of urine and ensure adequate fluid intake)

Renal impairment;
photosensitivity (discontinue if photosensitivity occurs);
Pregnancy (avoid use; arthropathy reported in animal studies; safer alternatives are available);
Breastfeeding (amount too small to be harmful; use alternative drugs if possible).

USE IN CHILDREN:
Ciprofloxacin causes arthropathy in weight-bearing joints of immature animals, and is therefore generally not
recommended for use in children and growing adolescents. However, the significance of this effect in humans is
uncertain and in some specific circumstances, short-term use of ciprofloxacin in children may be justified.

SKILLED TASKS:
May impair ability to perform skilled tasks, e.g., operating machinery or driving.

Page 3 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:50:46 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, itch, nausea, rash, vomiting.

Less Common:
agitation, anorexia, arthralgia, arthritis, confusion, decreased appetite and food intake, depression, dizziness,
drowsiness, hallucinations, fever, headache, myalgia, superinfections, fever, headache, myalgia, superinfections,
restlessness, sleep and taste disorders, urticaria.

Rare:
Agranulocytosis, anaphylaxis, bone marrow depression, C. difficile-associated disease, dyspnea, edema, erythema
multiforme, erythema, hematuria, fixed drug eruptions, hearing loss, hemolytic anemia, interstitial nephritis,
jaundice, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancreatitis, pancytopenia, petechiae, photosensitivity reactions, psychotic
reactions, renal impairment, seizures, serum sickness-like reactions, SJS, syncope, tachycardia, tendonitis,
thrombocytopenia, toxic epidermal necrolysis, vasculitis.

Drug Interactions

NOTE:
Ciprofloxacin inhibits CYP1A2, and may affect drugs metabolized by this enzyme.

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Ciprofloxacin: Ibuprofen
Reduces therapeutic effect of Phenytoin
Decreases metabolism of Theophylline
Enhances therapeutic effect of Warfarin
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Warfarin (risk of bleeding) [monitor INR]

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces absorption of Ciprofloxacin:
Antacids (e.g. aluminum or magnesium hydroxide) [give it at least 2 hours, before, or 4-6 hours after, the antacid],
Calcium [separate doses by at least 2 hours], Iron
[separate doses by at least 2 hours], Sucralfate, Zinc salts [separate doses by at least 2 hours]
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Ciprofloxacin:
Seizure-inducing drugs, Artemether + Lumefantrine

Mechanism of Action

Quinolones are broad-spectrum antibacterial agents. They act by blocking bacterial DNA synthesis by inhibiting
bacterial topoisomerase II and topoisomerase IV. Inhibition of topoisomerase II prevents the relaxation of positively
supercoiled DNA while inhibition of topoisomerase IV interferes with separation of replicated chromosomal DNA.

Page 4 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:50:46 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

REMARKS

WHO anti-biotic category: WATCH

Page 5 of 5