April 25, 2026, 1:50:10 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

CLOFAZIMINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J04BA01

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antimycobacterials

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Drugs for Treatment of Lepra

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 50 mg capsule (Rx)

ORAL › 100 mg capsule (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 50 mg capsule (Rx)

Multibacillary leprosy (in combination with dapsone and rifampicin), by mouth, ADULT, 50 mg once daily and 300 mg
once a month; CHILD 10-14 years, 50 mg on alternate days, and 150 mg once a month; CHILD <10 years, required
appropriate dosage adjustments (e.g., 50 mg twice a week and, 100 mg once a month); continue treatment for 12
months. Type 2 lepra reactions, by mouth, ADULT and CHILD, 200-300 mg daily in 2 or 3 divided doses for a
maximum of 3 months; 4-6 weeks treatment may be required before any effect is seen.

Administration

ORAL › 50 mg capsule (Rx)

Medicines used in the treatment of leprosy should always be used in combination (essential to prevent the
emergence of resistance); Clofazimine is best absorbed when given right after a meal.

Dose Adjustment

Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
Use drug with caution for mild-to-moderate impairment; for severe impairment, the patient should be referred to a
specialist.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 1:50:10 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Multibacillary leprosy; type 2 lepra reactions (Erythema Nodosum Leprosum).

Precautions

Patients with pre-existing GI symptoms and problems (reduce the dose, increase the dose interval or discontinue if
symptoms develop during treatment); avoid use if abdominal pain and diarrhea persist; may discolor soft contact
lenses; avoid treatment with daily doses exceeding 100 mg; Pregnancy (use with caution during first trimester);
breastfeeding (crosses placental barrier and excreted in breast milk; can cause reversible skin discoloration in
nursing infant).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Abdominal pain, conjunctival discoloration, diarrhea, dryness of skin, eye irritation, ichthyosis, itch nausea,
pink to brownish-black discoloration of skin, rash, red-brown coloration of body fluids, vomiting.

Less Common: Constipation, dizziness, drowsiness, eosinophilic enteritis, GI bleeding, splenic infarction, taste
disturbances.

Rare: Enteropathy (due to the deposition of clofazimine crystals in the GI mucosa and lymph nodes), phototoxicity.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces absorption of Rifampicin

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Clofazimine:
Dapsone

Mechanism of Action

Antimycobacterial drugs are used in the treatment of diseases caused by members of the Mycobacterium genus,
including tuberculosis (TB) and leprosy.
Combination chemotherapy is essential to kill heterogeneous populations of bacterial cells located in different
conditions within the host, and to prevent drug resistance.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2