April 25, 2026, 1:49:58 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

CLOMIFENE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

G03GB02

ANATOMICAL

Genito Urinary System and Sex Hormones

THERAPEUTIC

Sex Hormones and Modulators of the Genital System

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Gonadotropins And Other Ovulation Stimulants

CHEMICAL CLASS

Ovulation Stimulants, Synthetic

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 50 mg tablet (as citrate) (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 50 mg tablet (as citrate) (Rx)

NOTE: Schedule intercourse to coincide with the expected time of ovulation, usually 5–10 days after taking
Clomifene. Ovulation induction, by mouth, ADULT (female), 50 mg once a day for 5 days. Begin on or about the fifth
day of cycle if progestin-induced bleeding is expected or spontaneous uterine bleeding occurs before starting
therapy. Therapy can be started anytime if there is no recent uterine bleeding. Subsequent doses may be
increased to 100 mg once daily for 5 days only if ovulation does not occur at the initial dose. Maximum dose is 100
mg once a day for 5 days for 6 cycles (150 mg for women with PCOS). Long-term therapy of >6 cycles is not
recommended; lower doses (12.5 to 25 mg daily) can be used in women sensitive to clomiphene or who
consistently develop large ovarian cysts. NOTE: May repeat 5-day cycle if needed as early as 30 days after the
previous therapy, ruling out the possibility of pregnancy and using the lowest effective dose. Discontinue
treatment if ovulation does not occur after 3 courses of treatment; or if 3 ovulatory responses already occurred
but pregnancy is still not achieved.

Administration

ORAL › 50 mg tablet (as citrate) (Rx)

Total daily dose should only be taken one at a time to maximize effectiveness.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:49:58 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Treatment of anovulatory infertility and male infertility due to oligospermia

Contraindications

Hepatic disease or history of hepatic impairment; abnormal uterine bleeding; enlargement or development of
ovarian cyst not due to polycystic ovarian syndrome; uncontrolled thyroid or adrenal dysfunction; presence of an
organic intracranial lesion such as pituitary tumor; pregnancy

Precautions

Ovarian enlargement (generally regresses after stopping treatment);
Visual disturbances;
Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome;
Ascitic, pleural or pericardial fluids can be removed if necessary to lessen symptoms (women with OHSS should avoid
pelvic examination and/or intercourse);
Borderline or invasive ovarian cancer;
Polycystic ovarian syndrome;
Patients unusually sensitive to pituitary gonadotropins;
Uterine fibroids

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Ovarian enlargement
Less Common: Headache, hot flashes, breast discomfort, abnormal uterine bleeding, distention,
bloating/discomfort, nausea, vomiting, visual symptoms including blurred vision, diplopia, floaters, lights,
phosphenes, photophobia, scotomata, waves
Rare: Acute abdomen, alopecia, appetite increased, constipation, depression, dermatitis, diarrhea, dizziness, dry
hair, fatigue, insomnia, lightheadedness, nervousness, rash, urinary frequency/volume increased, vaginal dryness,
vertigo, weight gain or loss

Mechanism of Action

A racemic mixture that acts at the level of the hypothalamus, occupying the cell surface and intracellular estrogen
receptors (ERs) for longer durations than estrogen. It inhibits receptor recycling, depletes hypothalamic ERs, and
prevents normal estrogenic negative feedback. Inhibition of the feedback signal results in increased pulsatile
secretion of GnRH from the hypothalamus and release of pituitary gonadotropins (FSH, LH) causing growth of the
ovarian follicle, followed by follicular rupture.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:49:58 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

X

Page 3 of 3