April 24, 2026, 11:51:08 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

CLONAZEPAM (ANTIPSYCHOTICS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N03AE01

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psycholeptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Anxiolytics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 500 micrograms tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 2 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 500 micrograms tablet (Rx)

Panic disorder with or without agoraphoia, by mouth, ADULT, initially 0.25 mg/day in 2 divided doses. Slowly
increase in increments of 0.25 to 0.5 mg/day in 2 divided doses every 3 days until an average dose of 1 mg/day in 2
divided doses daily is reached or the desired efficacy is reached, whichever comes first, with a maximum dose of 4
mg/day. Discontinuation of treatment: To discontinue, treatment should be withdrawn gradually. Decrease dose by
0.25 mg/day in 2 divided doses every 3 days until medication is completely withdrawn. Seizures, by mouth, 1.5 mg
into three divided doses, raise by 0.5 mg every 3 days until desired effect is reached; divide into three even doses
or else give largest dose at bedtime; maximum dose generally 20 mg/day. Panic disorder, by mouth, 0.25 mg twice
daily; increase in increments of 0.125 to 0.25 mg twice daily every 3 days; target dose: 1 mg daily (maximum: 4 mg
daily). Discontinuation of treatment: To discontinue, treatment should be withdrawn gradually. Decrease dose by
0.125 mg twice daily every 3 days until medication is completely withdrawn.

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:51:08 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

ORAL › 500 micrograms tablet (Rx)

Administer in 3 equally divided doses for the treatment of seizure disorders; if doses are not equally divided, give
the largest dose at bedtime. Administer in 2 equally divided doses for the management of panic disorder;
alternatively, administer the entire dosage at bedtime to reduce the inconvenience of somnolence. Orally
disintegrating tablet: Just prior to administration, remove blister from aluminum pouch. Open pouch and peel
back foil on the blister; do not push tablet through foil. Use dry hands to remove tablet and place in mouth. May be
swallowed with or without water. Use immediately after removing from package. Tablet: Swallow whole with
water. See Clonazepam under Benzodiazepine Derivatives in Antiepileptics for other information. PREGNANCY
BREAST-FEEDING: Present in milk, and should be avoided if possible during breast-feeding. All infants should be
monitored for sedation, feeding difficulties, adequate weight gain, and developmental milestones. PATIENT
ADVICE: Inform clinicians and pharmacists of existing or contemplated concomitant therapy, including
prescription and OTC drugs, and alcohol consumption. Inform clinician of any of these health problems: glaucoma
or very bad liver disease. Take only as prescribed; do not increase dosage or duration of therapy unless otherwise
instructed by a clinician. Do not abruptly discontinue therapy, this could cause seizures. If the drug has been taken
for a long time or at high doses, it may not work as well and higher doses may be needed to get the same effect—
this is known as tolerance, inform the clinician it the drug stops working well. Avoid driving and doing other tasks
or actions that needs alertness. Avoid alcohol or other drugs and natural products that slow down actions. Inform
the clinician of any side effect (e.g., behavioral or mental changes, memory impairment, tolerance, or
dependence/withdrawal symptoms) experienced with taking the drug. If seizures have been experienced in the
past, the drug may cause you to pass out. Do not do activities that may be unsafe to you or others if you pass out,
like driving or swimming. For women, inform clinicians if they are or planning to become pregnant or plan to
breast-feed. Do not breast-feed while taking this drug. Clonazepam requires an S-2 license for physicians to be
able to prescribe it and an S-1 license with a triplicate prescription for pharmacists to dispense it.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Refer to adult dosing. Initiate with low doses and observe closely for signs of CNS and pulmonary toxicity.

Renal Impairment:
Start with small doses in severe impairment.

Hepatic Impairment:
Start with smaller initial doses or reduce dose. Can precipitate coma. Avoid in severe impairment.

Indications

Second-line treatment for panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia; Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (petit mal
variance); akinetic seizure; myoclonic seizure; absence seizure (petit mal)

NOTE: Clonazepam does not have analgesic, antidepressant, or antipsychotic properties. Worsening of seizures may
occur when added to service patients with multiple seizure types. Periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness
of clonazepam for the individual service user/patient.

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:51:08 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Severe liver disease, angle-closure glaucoma, myasthenia gravis, current alcohol abuse and drug abuse, respiratory
depression, coma.

Precautions

WARNING: Concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression
(monitor), coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in service patients for whom
alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required.

Acute porphyrias, airways obstruction, brain damage, cerebellar ataxia, depression, spinal ataxia, suicidal ideation.

Disease-related concerns:
Drug abuse
Post-traumatic Stress Disorder

Special populations:

Elderly (Increase the risk of impaired cognition, delirium, falls, fractures, and motor vehicle accidents (avoid use for
treatment of insomnia, agitation, or delirium) though use may be appropriate for seizure disorders, rapid eye
movement sleep disorders, benzodiazepine withdrawal, ethanol withdrawal, severe generalized anxiety disorder,
and periprocedural anesthesia.)
Pregnancy (Not recommended as treatment for anxiety during pregnancy, especially during the first trimester. Drug
should be tapered if discontinued.)
Breastfeeding (should be avoided if possible during breast- feeding.)

Other precautions:
Opioids and skeletal muscle relaxants
Tolerance (The effectiveness of clonazepam may decrease significantly after weeks or months of continuous
therapy.)
Withdrawal

MONITORING PARAMETERS: CBC, liver and renal function tests (periodically with long-term therapy) suicidality (e.g.,
suicidal thoughts, depression, behavioral changes).

STORAGE AND STABILITY: Tablets: Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F). Orally disintegrating tablets: Store at 25°C
(77°F) ; excursions permitted between 15°C and 30°C (59°F and 80°F).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Amnesia, bronchial hypersecretion and salivary hypersecretion in infants and small children, coordination
disturbances, confusion, dependence, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, muscle hypotonia, nystagmus, poor
concentration, restlessness, withdrawal syptoms (in children).

Rare: Aggression, anxiety, blood disorders, dysrthria, gastrointestinal symptoms, headache, paradoxical effects,
pruritus, respiratory depression.

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:51:08 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk adverse/toxic effect of Clonazepam:
(sleepiness and dizziness)

Decreases the therapeutic effects of Clonazepam: Theophylline derivatives, Yohimbine, CNS Depressants

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Flumazenil (precipitate seizures)
Ropinirole, Pramipexole, Rotigotine (sedative effect)
SSRIs (psychomotor impairment)

Increases plasma concentration of Clonazepam:
Disulfiram (reduce Clonazepam dosage as necessary)

Decreases plasma concentration of Clonazepam: Propantheline

Mechanism of Action

A benzodiazepine derivative that is used both as an anticonvulsant and for the short-term treatment of panic
disorder with or without agoraphobia.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 4 of 4