April 24, 2026, 11:51:25 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

CLOTRIMAZOLE (ANTIINFECTIVES (OPHTHALMOLOGICALS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S02AA15

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Otologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antiinfectives (Ophthalmologicals)

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OTHER › 1% otic solution (Rx)

Dosage

OTHER › 1% otic solution (Rx)

Otitis externa, into the ear, CHILD ≥2 years, instill 3 drops into the affected ear twice daily for 7 days or as directed
by the physician.

Administration

OTHER › 1% otic solution (Rx)

Prior to first administration, remove the closure and put the dropper assembly in place on the bottle. Avoid
contaminating the dropper with material from the ear, fingers or other sources. Warm to room temperature prior
to administration. Lie down with the affected ear upward. Instill the medication. Remain in this position for at least
30 seconds to facilitate penetration of the drops into the external ear canal. Repeat, if necessary, for the opposite
ear. Discard unused portion after treatment is completed.

Indications

Treatment of acute bacterial otitis externa caused by organisms susceptible to the action of ciprofloxacin, such as
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, and Enterobacteriaceae.

NOTE: NOT indicated for the treatment of otitis media

Page 1 of 2



April 24, 2026, 11:51:25 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Known or suspected perforated tympanic membrane.

Precautions

Hypersensitivity; Superinfection; Pregnancy and lactation (use with caution; safety has not been established in this
population).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Less Common:
Hypesthesia, paresthesia, pruritis, rash, urticaria.

Rare:
Ear discomfort, hearing disorders, ear pain.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Clotrimazole: Polyene Antibiotics e.g., Nystatin

Mechanism of Action

A broad-spectrum imidazole that acts against fungi (both dermatophytes and yeasts) and gram-positive cocci
(Staphylococcus and Streptococcus spp.).

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2