April 25, 2026, 1:49:30 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

CLOZAPINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N05AH02

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psycholeptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antipsychotics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 25 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 25 mg tablet (Rx)

Treatment-resistant schizophrenia and for reducing risk of recurrent suicidal behavior in patients with
schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, by mouth, ADULT, initially 25 mg daily in 2 divided doses, slowly
increase by 25–50 mg daily each day to a target dose of 300–450 mg daily in divided doses by the end of 2 weeks;
administer doses above 300 mg once daily in divided doses; dose increases beyond 450 mg once daily should be
done no more frequently than once or twice weekly in increments not exceeding 100 mg daily up to a maximum
dose of 900 mg once daily; if dosing is interrupted for =48 hours, re-initiate therapy at 12.5 mg once or twice daily
to minimize the risk of hypotension, bradycardia, and syncope. NOTE: Recommended dose is between 300–800 mg
once daily for at least 8 weeks as an adequate trial in treatment-resistant schizophrenia. If despite adequate
dosing and adherence there is no adequate response, perform therapeutic drug monitoring. Plasma levels above
350 nanograms/mL have been associated with treatment response.

Administration

ORAL › 25 mg tablet (Rx)

May be taken with or without food. Do NOT discontinue abruptly because of the possibility of withdrawal and
rebound psychosis. Perform discontinuation or cross-titration gradually over 1–2 weeks to minimize the potential
of withdrawal, rebound psychosis, extrapyramidal side effects, cholinergic rebound, rebound insomnia, and
unwanted pregnancy, unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal.

Page 1 of 5



April 25, 2026, 1:49:30 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
May tolerate lower doses better. Initiate with 12.5 mg once daily for 3 days, then increase to 25 mg once daily for 3
days as tolerated, may further increase, as tolerated, in increments of 12.5–25 mg daily every 3 days to desired
response, up to a maximum of 700 mg daily.

Renal Impairment:
Avoid in severe impairment.

Hepatic Impairment:
Avoid in symptomatic liver disease, progressive liver disease and hepatic failure. Monitor hepatic function regularly.

Indications

Management of clozapine-resistant schizophrenia; for reducing the risk of recurrent suicidal behavior in patients
with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder.

Page 2 of 5



April 25, 2026, 1:49:30 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Contraindications: Uncontrolled epilepsy, paralytic ileus, myoproliferative disorders, history of clozapine-induced
agranulocytosis or severe granulocytopenia; severe CNS depression; coma, bone-marrow disorders, alcoholic and
toxic psychoses, severe cardiac disorders (e.g., myocarditis), history of circulatory collapse.

Precautions

WARNING: Agranulocytosis. Associated with a significant risk of potentially life-threatening agranulocytosis.
Reserved use in the treatment of severely-ill patients with schizophrenia who fail to show an acceptable response to
adequate courses of standard antipsychotic drug treatment, or for reducing the risk of recurrent suicidal behavior in
patients with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder who are judged to be at risk of reexperiencing suicidal
behavior. Patients must have a baseline absolute neutrophil count (ANC) before initiation of treatment, as well as
regular ANCs during treatment and for at least 4 weeks after discontinuation of treatment.

Seizures. Use caution when administering to patients with a history of seizures or other predisposing factors. Advise
patients not to engage in any activity where sudden loss of consciousness could cause serious risk to themselves or
others. Fatal myocarditis and cardiomyopathy. Discontinue immediately when myocarditis is suspected. Re-challenge
with clozapine patients with clozapine-related myocarditis or cardiomyopathy.

Orthostatic hypotension, with or without syncope, can occur. Rarely, collapse can be profound and be accompanied
by respiratory and/or cardiac arrest. In case of a brief interval off clozapine, i.e. 2 or more days since the last dose,
resume treatment with 12.5 mg once or twice daily.

Use with caution when administered concurrently with benzodiazepine or any other psychotropic drug since
collapse, respiratory arrest and cardiac arrest has occurred in this combination.

Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death.
Clozapine is not approved for use in patients with dementia-related psychosis.

Anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia, blurred vision, urinary retention; use is associated with
increased risk of paralytic ileus, bowel obstruction, fecal impaction, bowel perforation, and in rare cases death); fever
(benign transient temperature elevation >38°C or 100.4°F); neuroleptic malignant syndrome; impared temperature
regulation.

CNS depression; extrapyramidal symptoms e.g. acute dystonic reactions, pseudoparkinsonism, akathisia, and tardive
dyskinesia; risk of dystonia may be greater with increased doses); falls; suicidal ideation; QT prolongation
(ventricular arrhythmias; cardiac arrest and sudden death).

Dyslipidemia; eosinophilia; hyperglycemia (associated with ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar coma, or death); sialorrhea
(drooling, skin irritation and infections, aspiration pneumonia, chronic sleep disturbances with daytime fatigue and
somnolence, painful swelling of the salivary glands, and symptomatic aerophagia with resultant gas bloating, pain,
and flatus may also develop); thromboembolism (deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, some fatal).

Esophageal dysmotility or aspiration; hepatotoxicity (severe, life-threatening, sometimes fatal, including hepatic
failure, hepatic necrosis, and hepatitis); weight gain.

Acute infectious or inflammatory processes; benign ethnic neutropenia; cardiovascular disease; glaucoma;
prostate; renal impairment.

Page 3 of 5



April 25, 2026, 1:49:30 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Smokers (decreases clozapine concentration; may require twice the daily dose to obtain an equivalent
concentration; smoking cessation may cause toxicity in patients stabilized on clozapine; monitor change in smoking
patterns).

Elderly (more susceptible to adverse effects; potentially inappropriate in the elderly; avoid use in patients =65 years
with dementia due to an increased risk of mortality and cerebrovascular accidents, a greater rate of cognitive
decline, and potential to cause or exacerbate SIADH or hyponatremia, unless all non-pharmacologic options have
failed or are not possible or the patient is threatening substantial harm to self or to others).

Pregnancy (risk of abnormal muscle movements and withdrawal symptoms in newborns with fetal exposure during
the third trimester); lactation (monitor infant for possible adverse effects).

SKILLED TASKS. May impair ability to perform tasks, which require mental alertness, like driving or operating
machinery.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Tachycardia, hypotension, hypertension, syncope, drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, insomnia, headache,
agitation, restlessness, vertigo, akinesia, disturbed sleep, nightmares, akathisia, confusion, seizure (dose related),
fatigue, tremor, hypersalivation (can be severe), diaphoresis, skin rashweight gain, sialorrhea, weight gain,
constipation, nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia, xerostomia, abdominal distress, heartburn, diarrhea, leukopenia,
neutropenia, eosinophilia, urine abnormality, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, visual disturbance.

Less Common: Agranulocytosis, abnormal electrocephalogram, angioedema, aspiration, bradycardia, cardiac
arrhythmia, cardiac failure, cardiomyopathy (usually dilated), cataplexy, cerebrovascular accident, cholestasis, colitis,
deep vein thrombosis, delirium, diabetes mellitus, dyschromia, dysphagia, enlargement of salivary glands, erythema
multiforme, fecal impaction, gastroenteritis, granulocytopenia, esophageal dysmotility, hepatic cirrhosis, hepatic
fibrosis, hepatic insufficiency, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hypersensitivity reaction, hepatotoxicity, hyperglycemia
associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, hyperuricemia, hyponatremia, interstitial nephritis
(acute), intestinal obstruction, jaundice, ketoacidosis, leukocytosis, liver injury, liver steatosis, lower respiratory
tract infection, mitral valve insufficiency, myasthenia syndrome, myocardial infarction, myocarditis, myoclonus,
neuroleptic malignant syndrome, nocturnal enuresis, obsessive compulsive disorder, obstructive orthostatic
hypotension, palpitations, sleep apnea, pancreatitis (acute), paralytic ileus, paresthesia, pheochromocytoma
(pseudo), periorbital edema, pleural effusion, pneumonia, priapism, pulmonary embolism, prolonged QT interval
(dose-dependent), renal failure, psychosis (exacerbated), retrograde ejaculation, rhabdomyolysis, sepsis, skin
photosensitivity, sialadenitis, status epilepticus, SJS, systemic lupus erythematosus, syncope, tardive dyskinesia,
thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, torsade de pointes, vasculitis, weight loss.

Rare: Changes in body thermoregulation.

Page 4 of 5



April 25, 2026, 1:49:30 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Antihypertensives CNS Depressants (central effects)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Clozapine: Methylphenidate, Metoclopramide (sleepiness and dizziness)
Lithium (neurotoxic effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors (extrapyramidal
symptoms), Antihypertensives (hypotension) Glucagon (GI adverse effects) Iohexol, Iomeprol, Iopamidol (seizures)
Mequitazine (arrhythmogenic effect) Mirabegron, Topiramate, Myelosuppressive Agents (bone marrow suppression)
QTc-prolonging Agents (torsades de pointes) Saquinavir (arrhythmogenic effect) Serotonin Modulators (neuroleptic
malignant syndrome; serotonin syndrome) SSRIs (psychomotor impairment)
Reduces absorption of Nitroglycerin (decreases dissolution of sublingual nitroglycerin tablets)
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Antidiabetics, Phenylephrine, Prokinetics, Secretin
Amphetamines (stimulant effect) Anticholinergics (anticholinergic effect) Epinephrine (reverses pressor effect)
Guanethidine (antihypertensive effects)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Agranulocytosis-inducing Drugs (agranulocytosis)
Other Antipsychotics (increased hospitalization rates and length of stay; increased mortality; QTc prolongation;
torsades de pointes)

Mechanism of Action

Clozapine is a tricyclic dibenzodiazepine and an atypical antipsychotic with weak D2 blocking action. It is the only
antipsychotic documented to reduce suicide risk in patients with schizophrenia. It has 5-HT2A antagonism which
gives it little to no EPS and tardive dyskinesia risk, and dose not elevate prolactin. It is often reserved as a last-line
option due to the risk of developing lifethreatening and occasionally fatal agranulocytosis, as well as an increased
risk of seizures.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 5 of 5