April 25, 2026, 1:48:57 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

COBRA ANTIVENIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J06AA03

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Immune Sera and Immunoglobulins

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Immune Sera

CHEMICAL CLASS

Immune sera

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV INFUSION › 800 IU/mL, 5 mL ampul (Rx)

IV INFUSION › 800 MU/4.8 mL, 1 mL ampul (Rx)

Dosage

Administration

Indications

Management of patients with Naja spp. Envenomations (i.e., N. philippinensis, N. samarensis and N. sumatrana), signs
of neurotoxicity or swelling involving more than half the bitten extremity.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 1:48:57 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Allergy to horse-based products, or antivenin by history or because of an appropriate sensitivity test;
hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation, including papaya or papain; cross allergenicity with dust mite
and latex allergens.

Precautions

WARNING: Antivenins should never be administered prophylactically to asymptomatic patients. Pain and fang marks
are not intrinsically signs of envenomation.

Patients sensitive to antivenin or horse serum may develop anaphylaxis. Prior to IV or IM antivenin administration,
proper skin test should be performed and interpreted (therapy may be modified if indicated); in life threatening
situations, pre-treat with antihistamine (diphenhydramine, 50-100 mg IV), followed by slow IV infusion of very dilute
antivenin. At the first sign of hypersensitivity reaction, stop infusion and administer subcutaneously 0.5-1.0 mL
epinephrine (1:1000), preexisting renal, hepatic, cardiac, or respiratory treatment with anticoagulant or antiplatelet
drugs (increased risk of serious outcomes, including death from snakebite), the elderly (may require more vigorous
treatment), children (should not be given weight-adjusted doses, the amount required depends on the amount of
venom to be neutralized).

STORAGE: Cold-chain management in hospitals.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Anaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions, chest discomfort, chills, dizziness, dyspnea, edema of the face,
tongue, and throat, fever, flushing, headache, hypotension, pruritus, rash, serum sickness, tachypnea, urticaria.

Less Common: Abdominal pain, angioedema, arthralgia, bradycardia, bronchospasm, collapse, myalgia, nausea,
neurological impairment, pain at the infusion site, sweating, tachycardia, vertigo, vomiting, wheezing.

Rare: Cardiac arrest

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2