April 24, 2026, 11:51:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

COLISTIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J01XB01

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antibacterials for Systemic Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Polymyxins

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › [Reserve] 2,000,000 IU lyophilized powder for injection (Rx)

Dosage

IV › [Reserve] 2,000,000 IU lyophilized powder for injection (Rx)

Susceptible infections, for IV injection, ADULT, 2.5 to 5 mg CBA/kg/day in 2 to 4 divided doses; maximum: 5 mg
CBA/kg/day, CHILD, 2.5 to 5 mg CBA/kg/day in 2 to 4 divided doses; maximum: 5 mg CBA/kg/day

Administration

IV › [Reserve] 2,000,000 IU lyophilized powder for injection (Rx)

Administer by IM, direct IV injection over 3 to 5 minutes, intermittent infusion over 30 minutes or by continuous IV
infusion. For continuous IV infusion, one-half of the total daily dose is administered by direct IV injection over 3 to
5 minutes followed 1 to 2 hours later by the remaining one-half of the total daily dose diluted in a compatible IV
solution infused over 22 to 23 hours. The final concentration for continuous infusion administration should be
based on the patient's fluid needs; infusion should be completed within 24 hours of preparation.

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:51:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Refer to adult dosing

Renal Impairment:
Note: Dosage expressed in terms of colistin base activity (CBA); although reported conversions have varied slightly
in the literature, CBA 1 mg is defined to be equivalent to colistimethate sodium (CMS) 30,000 units

CrCl ≥80 mL/minute: No dosage adjustment necessary; maximum: 5 mg CBA/kg/day
CrCl 50 to 79 mL/minute: 2.5 to 3.8 mg CBA/kg/day in 2 divided doses
CrCl 30 to 49 mL/minute: 2.5 mg CBA/kg/day once daily or in 2 divided doses
CrCl 10 to 29 mL/minute: 1.5 mg CBA/kg every 36 hours
Intermittent hemodialysis (IHD) (administer after hemodialysis on dialysis days) - 1.5 mg CBA/kg every 24 to 48 hours
Continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) - Drug clearance is highly dependent on the method of renal
replacement, filter type, and flow rate. Appropriate dosing requires close monitoring of pharmacologic response,
signs of adverse reactions due to drug accumulation, as well as drug concentrations in relation to target trough (if
appropriate).
CVVH/CVVHD/CVVHDF - 2.5 mg CBA/kg every 24 to 48 hours (frequency dependent upon site or severity of infection
or susceptibility of pathogen). Note: These are general recommendations only (based on dialysate flow/ultrafiltration
rates of 1 to 2 L/hour and minimal residual renal function) and should not supersede clinical judgment. More recent
data among patients receiving CVVHDF suggest that the daily dose at least equal or even exceed that of patients
with normal renal function.
Sustained low-efficiency dialysis (SLED): IV: May consider using the following calculations; however, although derived
from critically ill patients, the use of this algorithm has not been prospectively evaluated in the critically ill (Nation
2017):

Loading dose of colistin base activity (mg) = Target average colistin steady-state plasma concentration (in mg/L) x 2 x
weight (in kg) (maximum loading dose: 300 mg CBA). For patient weight, use the lower of ideal or actual body weight
expressed in kg. Application of these equations has not been evaluated in obese patients.

Maintenance dose of colistin base activity (mg): Add 10% per 1 hour of SLED replacement to the baseline daily dose
(refer to equation in IHD section above; administer in 2 divided doses administered 12 hours apart). For example, in a
patient receiving 10 hours nocturnal SLED session each day with a goal colistin steady-state concentration of 2
mg/L, the suggested CBA dose is: 130 mg + 10 hours * 13 mg = 260 mg CBA/day. SLED session should begin 1 to 2
hours after the afternoon/evening dose.

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:51:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

For extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) or carbapenemase-producing multidrug-resistant (MDR) gram-
negative bacillus; Treatment of acute or chronic infections due to sensitive strains of certain gram-negative bacilli
(particularly Pseudomonas aeruginosa) which are resistant to other antibacterials or in patients allergic to other
antibacterials

NOTE: Its use is restricted only to health facilities able to satisfy the following criteria:
(1) Presence of an Infection Control Committee whose chairperson is a physician and DOH-trained on antimicrobial
stewardship
(2) Presence of a board certified infectious disease specialist who shall authorize the use of the drug as clinically
needed

Precautions

Transient, reversible neurological disturbances (e.g., dizziness, numbness, paresthesia, generalized pruritus, slurred
speech, tingling, vertigo) may occur. (Patients must be cautioned about performing tasks which require mental
alertness (e.g., operating machinery or driving). Dose reduction may reduce neurologic symptoms; monitor closely);
Dose-dependent nephrotoxicity has been reported, generally reversible upon discontinuation of treatment.
Withhold treatment if signs of renal impairment occur during treatment;
Respiratory arrest has been reported with use; impaired renal function may increase the risk for neuromuscular
blockade and apnea;
Prolonged use may result in fungal or bacterial superinfection, including C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) and
pseudomembranous colitis; CDAD has been observed >2 months postantibiotic treatment.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Nephrotoxicity, acute, renal failure

Less Common: neurotoxicity

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:51:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitory closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects Colistin:
Aminoglycosides e.g. Streptomycin; Amphotericin B
Cefazedone, Cephalothin, Vancomycin

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
BCG Vaccine, Lactobacillus and Estriol, Sodium Picosulfate, Typhoid Vaccine

Enhances therapeutic effect of Colistin:
Capreomycin, Polymyxin B

Enhances therapeutic effect of Neuromuscular-Blocking Agents

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Bacitracin, Methoxyflurane

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
BCG, Cholera Vaccine

Mechanism of Action

Polymyxins are bactericidal drugs that bind to lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and phospholipids in the outer cell
membrane of gram-negative bacteria. They competitively displace divalent cations from the phosphate groups of
membrane lipids, which leads to disruption of the outer cell membrane, leakage of intracellular contents, and
bacterial death.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

REMARKS

WHO anti-biotic category: RESERVE

Page 4 of 4