April 24, 2026, 11:51:46 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

COMBINED GLUCOSE-AMINO ACID SOLUTIONS

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05BA10

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions for Parenteral Nutrition

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › IV › SC › Volume 100 mL Concentration variable Glucose (sorbitol) 25-50 g Protein 20-30 g Calories 300-450
kcal (Rx)

IM › IV › SC › Volume 500 mL Concentration variable Glucose (sorbitol) 25-50 g Protein 20-30 g Calories 300-450
kcal Electrolytes variable (Rx)

Dosage

IM / IV / SC › Volume 100 mL Concentration variable Glucose (sorbitol) 25-50 g Protein 20-30 g Calories 300-450 kcal (Rx)

Total daily dose depends on the daily protein requirements and on the patient’s metabolic and clinical response.
Providing adequate calories in the form of hypertonic dextrose may require the administration of exogenous
insulin to prevent hyperglycemia and glycosuria. Administer 5% dextrose solution when hypertonic dextrose
infusions are abruptly discontinued to prevent rebound hypoglycemia.

Administration

IM / IV / SC › Volume 100 mL Concentration variable Glucose (sorbitol) 25-50 g Protein 20-30 g Calories 300-450 kcal (Rx)

Administer by IV route. Hypertonic admixtures may be administered by continuous IV infusion through a central
venous catheter with the tip located in the superior vena cava. Inspect visually for particulate matter and
discoloration prior to administration. Administration time for a single bottle and set should NEVER exceed 24
hours. Solutions administrated to children by peripheral vein should NOT exceed twice the normal serum
osmolarity (718 mOsmol/L).

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:51:46 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

IV nutritional therapy to prevent nitrogen loss or treat negative nitrogen balance in patients with adequate stores of
body fat, in whom, for short periods of time, oral nutrition cannot be tolerated, is undesirable, or inadequate.

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to one or more amino acids in the solution; allergy to corn or corn products; hepatic coma; metabolic
disorders involving impaired nitrogen utilization; intracranial or intraspinal hemorrhage; severe dehydration; severe
liver disease.

Precautions

WARNING: Administration by central venous catheter should be used only by those familiar with this technique and
its complications.

Renal impairment (may induce a rise in BUN; perform appropriate laboratory tests periodically; a modest rise in BUN
normally occurs as a result of increased protein intake; discontinue infusion if BUN levels exceed normal
postprandial limits); Hepatic insufficiency; Diabetic or prediabetic patients (take special care when administering
glucose); Pulmonary disease, or with cardiac insufficiency (use with caution to avoid excessive fluid accumulation);
Severe renal failure and in conditions where potassium retention is present (use with great care); Metabolic or
respiratory alkalosis; Increased level or impaired utilization of acetate (e.g., severe hepatic insufficiency) (use with
great care); Hyperammonemia.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Nausea, erythema, extravasation, infection at the injection site, phlebitis extending from the injection site, venous
thrombosis, warm sensation, hyperglycemia, hyperosmolar syndrome, hypervolemia, diuresis, fever, flushing,
glycosuria.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces nitrogen-sparing effects of amino acids:
Tetracycline.

Mechanism of Action

The solution provides carbohydrate calories and crystalline amino acids to stimulate protein synthesis, limit protein
catabolism, minimize liver glycogen depletion, and promote wound healing.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:51:46 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3