April 24, 2026, 11:51:52 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

CONJUGATED ESTROGEN (ESTROGENS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

G03CA57

ANATOMICAL

Genito Urinary System and Sex Hormones

THERAPEUTIC

Sex Hormones and Modulators of the Genital System

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Estrogens

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 1.25 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 625 micrograms tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 1.25 mg tablet (Rx)

Treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms due to menopause, by mouth, ADULT, 300 micrograms
once daily then maintain using 450 micrograms to 1.25 mg daily, continuous or in cyclical regimens (e.g., 25 days on
therapy then 5 days off). Treatment of moderate to severe vaginal dryness and pain with intercourse, symptoms of
vulvar and vaginal atrophy due to intercourse, by mouth, ADULT, 300 micrograms once daily, continuous or in
cyclical regimens (e.g., 25 days on therapy then 5 days off). Female hypoestrogenism due to hypogonadism, by
mouth, ADULT, 300–625 micrograms once daily administered cyclically (e.g., 3 weeks on therapy then 1 week off).
Palliative treatment of advanced androgen-dependent carcinoma of prostate, by mouth, ADULT, 1.25 to 2.5 mg 3
times daily. Female castration or primary ovarian failure, by mouth, ADULT, 1.25 mg once daily administered
cyclically (e.g., 3 weeks on therapy then 1 week off). Palliative treatment of breast cancer in appropriately selected
women and men with metastatic disease, by mouth, ADULT, 10 mg 3 times daily for at least 3 months.

Administration

ORAL › 1.25 mg tablet (Rx)

May be taken without regard to meals. Use alone or in combination with progestin with the lowest effective dose
and for the shortest duration possible. Consider adding progestin when prescribing estrogen for a
postmenopausal woman with a uterus to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer. NOTE: Women without uterus do
not need progestin, however, hysterectomized women with a history of endometriosis may need progestin.

Page 1 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:51:52 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

For estrogen replacement therapy; prevention of progression of osteoporosis associated with estrogen deficiency
in postmenopausal women; management of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause;
management of vulvar and vaginal atrophy (atrophic vaginitis); management of female hypoestrogenism secondary
to hypogonadism, castration, or primary ovarian failure; palliative treatment of advanced, inoperable, metastatic
carcinoma of the breast in postmenopausal women and in men; palliative treatment of advanced carcinoma of the
prostate in men

Page 2 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:51:52 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Angioedema or anaphylactic reaction to estrogen or any component of the formulation; undiagnosed abnormal
genital bleeding; DVT or PE (current or history of); active or history of arterial thromboembolic disease (e.g., stroke,
MI); breast cancer (known, suspected or history of); estrogen-dependent tumor (known or suspected); hepatic
impairment or disease; protein C, protein S, antithrombin deficiency, or other known thrombophilic disorders;
pregnancy

Precautions

Warning: Do NOT use for prophylaxis of dementia. An increased incidence of dementia was observed in women ≥65
years of age taking conjugated estrogens alone or in combination with medroxyprogesterone acetate.
Do NOT use in the prevention of cardiovascular disease. An increased risk of deep vein thrombosis (DVT), stroke,
pulmonary emboli (PE), and myocardial infarction (MI) was observed with conjugated estrogens with
medroxyprogesterone acetate in postmenopausal women.
Use of unopposed estrogen in women with an intact uterus is associated with an increased risk of endometrial
cancer. Combination therapy of a progestin to estrogen treatment may decrease the risk of endometrial hyperplasia,
a precursor to endometrial cancer. Conduct appropriate monitoring and diagnostic measures, including endometrial
sampling if indicated, to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed abnormal vaginal
bleeding.
An increased risk of invasive breast cancer was observed in postmenopausal women using conjugated estrogens in
combination with medroxyprogesterone acetate. An increase in abnormal mammogram findings has also been
reported with estrogen alone or in combination with progestin therapy. Treatment may also lead to severe
hypercalcemia in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases. Stop treatment of estrogen if this occurs. Use is
contraindicated in patients with known or suspected breast cancer.

Endometriosis (consider adding a progestin with residual endometriosis post-hysterectomy);
Venous thromboembolism in women with inherited thrombophilias;
Ovarian cancer;
Retinal vascular thrombosis (discontinue if migraine, loss of vision, proptosis, diplopia, or other visual disturbances
occur);
Asthma;
Diabetes;
Cardiovascular diseases (avoid use);
Diseases exacerbated by fluid retention;
Epilepsy;
Gallbladder disease requiring surgery;
History of cholestatic jaundice associated with prior estrogen use or pregnancy (discontinue if jaundice develops or
acute or chronic hepatic disturbances occur);
Hepatic hemangiomas;
Hereditary angioedema;
Hypoparathyroidism;
Migraine;
Porphyria;
Renal impairment;
Systemic lupus erythematosus;
Renal impairment;
Estrogens should also be stopped at least 4-6 weeks prior to elective surgery or be subjected to prolonged

Page 3 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:51:52 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

immobilization due to increased risk of thromboembolism. The use of estrogens may also modify results of some
laboratory tests (e.g., coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, binding proteins)
Elderly (higher incidence of stroke and breast cancer was seen in women >75 years old).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Headache, paresthesia, dizziness, pain, abdominal pain, nausea, mastalgia, endometrial hyperplasia,
uterine hemorrhage, infection, back pain, upper respiratory tract infection
Less Common: Anxiety, hypertonia, weight gain, dyspepsia, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, vaginitis, leg cramps,
cough, rhinitis, fever

Page 4 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:51:52 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances thrombogenic effect of Conjugated Estrogen:
C1 Inhibitors, NSAID, including COX-2 Inhibitor

Enhances thrombogenic effect of the following drugs:
Anthrax Immune Globulin (Human), Immune Globulin,

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Dantrolene (hepatotoxic effect)

Reduces therapeutic effect of Conjugated Estrogen:
Tocilizumab

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Antidiabetic Agents, Thyroid Products

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases serum concentration of Conjugated Estrogen:
Dabrafenib, Enzalutamide,

Increases metabolism of Conjugated Estrogen:
CYP1A2 Inducers, CYP3A4 Inducers

Increases serum concentration of the following drugs:
Tizanidine

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Anastrozole, Anticoagulants, Exemestane, Hyaluronidase, Somatropin

Mechanism of Action

Conjugated estrogen is a mixture of estrogens that are available either as preparations that meet current official
USP standards or as nonofficial preparations, which are prepared synthetically from plant sources (e.g., synthetic
conjugated estrogens A, synthetic conjugated estrogens B).

Estrogens modulate the pituitary secretion of gonadotropins, luteinizing hormone, and follicle-stimulating hormone
through a negative feedback system reducing elevated levels of these hormones possible for symptoms
experienced by postmenopausal women.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

X

Page 5 of 5