April 24, 2026, 11:54:03 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DACTINOMYCIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

L01DA01

ANATOMICAL

Antineoplastic and Immunomodulating Agents

THERAPEUTIC

Antineoplastic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Cytotoxic Antibiotics and Related Substances

CHEMICAL CLASS

Actinomycines

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 500 micrograms powder, vial (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 500 micrograms powder, vial (Rx)

NOTE: Dose intensity per 2-week cycle should not exceed 15 micrograms/kg daily for 5 days or 400–600
micrograms/m2 daily for 5 days. Calculate dose for obese or edematous adult patients based on BSA to relate
dosage to lean body mass. Associated with a high emetic potential. Antiemetics are recommended to prevent
nausea and vomiting. Testicular cancer, metastatic, by slow IV push, ADULT, in combination with
cyclophosphamide, bleomycin, cisplatin, and vinblastine, 1,000 micrograms/m2 on day 1. Gestational trophoblastic
neoplasm, by slow IV push, ADULT, 12 microgams/kg daily for 5 days; in combination with etoposide, methotrexate,
leucovorin, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, and cisplatin, 500 micrograms/dose on days 1 and 2. Wilms’ tumor,
Ewing’s sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, by slow IV push, ADULT and CHILD>6 months, in various combination
regimens and schedules, 15 micrograms/kg daily for 5 days. Regional perfusion, by IV injection, ADULT, lower
extremity or pelvis, 50 micrograms/kg; upper extremity, 35 micrograms/kg; [NOTE: Doses and techniques may vary
by institution. Obese patients and patients with prior chemotherapy or radiation therapy may require lower doses.
Regional perfusion therapy may result in local limb edema, soft tissue damage, and possible venous thrombosis.
Dactinomycin leakage into systemic circulation may result in hematologic toxicity, infection, impaired wound
healing, and mucositis.]

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:54:03 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IV › 500 micrograms powder, vial (Rx)

For IV administration only. Do NOT administer by IM or SC. Administer by slow IV push or by IV infusion over 10–
15minutes. Do NOT filter with cellulose ester membrane filters. Avoid inhalation of vapors or contact with skin,
mucous membrane, or eyes. NOTE: Avoid extravasation. Vesicant and extremely corrosive to soft tissue. Ensure
proper needle or catheter position prior to and during administration. Associated with a high emetic potential.
Antiemetics are recommended to prevent nausea and vomiting.

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment
Based onthe amount of urinary excretion, dose adjustment may not be necessary.

Hepatic Impairment:
For mild impairment, no dose adjustments provided.
For moderate-to-severe impairment, consider dose reduction.
For patients with hyperbilirubinemia, reduce doses by 33– 50%.

Obesity:
Use actual body weight (full weight) for calculation of BSAbased or weight-based dosing, especially if the intent of
therapy is curative.
If dose reduction is done due to toxicity, consider resumption of full weight-based dosing with subsequent cycles,
especially if cause of toxicity is resolved.

Radiation Therapy Recipients:
Use with caution in patients who have received radiation therapy. Reduce doses in patients receiving concomitant
radiation therapy. Avoid dactinomycin use within 2months of radiation treatment for right-sided Wilms' tumor.

Indications

Treatment of Wilms' tumor, childhood rhabdomyosarcoma, metastatic testicular tumors (nonseminomatous), Ewing's
sarcoma, and gestational trophoblastic neoplasm; regional perfusion (palliative or adjunctive) of locally recurrent
orlocoregional solid tumors (sarcomas, carcinomas, and adenocarcinomas)

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:54:03 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Patients with concurrent or recent chickenpox or herpes zoster

Precautions

WARNING: Should be administered under the supervision of an experienced cancer chemotherapy physician,
experienced in the use of cancer chemotherapeutic agents. Administer in a facility sufficient to appropriately
diagnose and manage complications.

WARNING: Highly toxic. Use caution in handling andadministration of both powder and solution. Review special
handling procedures and follow diligently to minimize toxic effects of dactinomycin, e.g., mutagenicity,
teratogenicity, carcinogenicity, corrosivity.

Secondary malignancies (second primary tumors may occur; long-term observation of cancer survivors is
recommended due to increased risk following radiation and chemotherapy treatment).

Toxic effects (e.g. severe myelosuppression, diarrhea or, stomatitis; discontinue treatment if toxic effects occur)

Hepatotoxicity (e.g. hepatic sinusoidal obstruction syndrome / SOS, characterized by bilirubin >1.4 mg/dL,
unexpected weight gain, ascites, hepatomegaly, and unexplained right upper quadrant pain)

Concurrent radiation therapy (potentiates the effects of radiation therapy; may result in increased toxicity, e.g., GI
toxicity, myelosuppression, severe oropharyngeal mucositis; may reactivate erythema from prior radiation therapy;
may increase the risk of hepatotoxicity)

Extravasation (extravasation during IV use causes severe damage to soft tissues; has rarely led to contracture of the
arms).

Elderly (may be associated with an increased risk of myelosuppression)

Children (avoid use in infants <6 months of age due to a more frequent occurrence of toxic effects; risk of fatal
hepatic sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS) is increased in children <4 years).

Pregnancy (avoid exposure during pregnancy).

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:54:03 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Abdominal pain, acne, alopecia (reversible), anaphylactoid reaction, agranulocytosis, anemia, anorexia, aplastic
anemia, ascites, bilirubin increased, cheilitis, diarrhea, dysphagia, edema, epidermolysis, erythema, erythema
multiforme, esophagitis, fatigue, febrile neutropenia, fever, GI ulceration, growth retardation, hepatic failure,
hepatitis, hepatic sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS), hepatomegaly, hepatopathy thrombocytopenia syndrome,
hepatotoxicity, abnormal liver function test, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, increased pigmentation, infection,
lethargy, leukopenia, myalgia, myelosuppression, pain, malaise, mucositis, nausea, neutropenia, or erythema of
previously irradiated skin; skin eruptions, pancytopenia, pharyngitis, proctitis, pneumonitis, abnormal renal function,
sepsis (including neutropenic sepsis), sloughing, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, reticulocytopenia, stomatitis,
thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenia (immunemediated), tissue necrosis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, ulceration
(following extravasation), vomiting

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Dactinomycin: Trastuzumab (neutropenic effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Dactinomycin: Denosumab (serious infections)
Reduces diagnostic effect of Coccidioides immitis Skin Test

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Dactinomycin: Roflumilast (immunosuppressive effect)
Enhances therapeutic effect of Tofacitinib (immunosuppressive effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Dactinomycin: Dipyrone (agranulocytosis, pancytopenia), Pimecrolimus,
Tacrolimus (Topical)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Clozapine (agranulocytosis), Leflunomide
(hematologic toxicity such as pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, and/or thrombocytopenia), Natalizumab (concurrent
infection)
Reduces therapeutic effect of Dactinomycin: Echinacea
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: BCG (Intravesical), Vaccines (live virus vaccines may progress to
infection)

Mechanism of Action

An actinomycine derivative that binds to guanine portions of the DNA to intercalate between base pairs and inhibit
DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 4 of 4