April 24, 2026, 11:54:21 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DANTROLENE (SPECIFIC ANTIDOTES)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

M03CA01

ANATOMICAL

Various

THERAPEUTIC

All Other Therapeutic Products

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Specific Antidotes

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 25 mg (as sodium salt) capsule (Rx)

ORAL › 50 mg (as sodium salt) capsule (Rx)

IV › 20 mg (as sodium salt) with 3 g mannitol per vial (for reconstitution with 60 mL sterile water for injection) (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 25 mg (as sodium salt) capsule (Rx)

NOTE: Dose should be titrated and individualized for maximum effect. Use the lowest dose compatible with
optimal response. Some patients may not respond until a higher daily dosage is achieved. Each dose level should
be maintained for 7 days to determine patient response. If no further benefit observed with the higher dose level,
then decrease dosage to previous dose level. Malignant hyperthermia, preoperative prophylaxis, by mouth,
ADULT, 4–8 mg/kg per day in 3–4 divided doses, begin 1–2 days prior to surgery with last dose 3–4 hours prior to
surgery; by IV injection, ADULT, 2.5 mg/kg ~1¼ hours prior to anesthesia and infused over at least 1 minute
(Ryanodex) or 1 hour (Dantrium, Revonto) with additional doses as needed and individualized.Malignant
hyperthermia, crisis, by IV injection, ADULT, 2.5 mg/kg; continuously repeat dose until symptoms subside or a
cumulative dose of 10 mg/kg is reached; rarely, some patients may require up to 30 mg/kg for initial treatment.
NOTE: Manufacturer's labeling suggests an initial minimum dose of 1 mg/kg. Malignant hyperthermia, post-crisis
follow up, by continuous IV infusion, ADULT, 0.25 mg/kg per hour for at least 24 hours; by mouth, ADULT, 4 to 8
mg/kg per day in 4 divided doses for 1–3 days NOTE: IV dantrolene may be used to prevent or attenuate recurrence
of MH signs when oral therapy is not practical.

Page 1 of 2



April 24, 2026, 11:54:21 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

ORAL › 25 mg (as sodium salt) capsule (Rx)

For IV preparation, reconstitute with 60 mL sterile water for injection. Therapeutic or emergency dose can be
administered by rapid continuous IV push. Follow-up doses should be administered over at least 1 minute
(Ryanodex) or 1 hour (Dantrium, Revonto). EXTRAVASATION MANAGEMENT: Ensure proper needle or catheter
placement prior to and during infusion to avoid extravasation. If extravasation occurs, stop infusion immediately
and disconnect (leave cannula or needle in place), then gently aspirate extravasated solution (do NOT flush the
line). Remove needle or cannula and elevate extremity. See Dantrolene under Muscle Relaxants – Directly Acting
Agents in Chapter 9: Musculo-Skeletal System for other information.

Indications

Management of malignant hyperthermia (MH); prevention of MH in susceptible individuals (preoperative or
postoperative administration); for neuroleptic malignant syndrome

NOTE: Dantrolene prophylaxis is NOT recommended for
most MH-susceptible patients, provided non-triggering
anesthetics are used and an adequate supply of
dantrolene is available.

Contraindications

Active liver disease; should not be used when spasticity is used to maintain posture/balance during locomotion or to
obtain or maintain increased function

Mechanism of Action

A skeletal muscle relaxant that acts directly on skeletal muscle by interfering with release of calcium ion from the
sarcoplasmic reticulum. This prevents or reduces the increase in myoplasmic calcium ion concentration that
activates the acute catabolic processes associated with malignant hyperthermia.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2