April 24, 2026, 11:54:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DAPSONE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J04BA02

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antimycobacterials

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Drugs for Treatment of Lepra

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (Rx)

Dermatitis herpetiformis, by mouth, ADULT, start at 50 mg daily, increase to 300 mg daily (or higher to achieve full
control). NOTE: reduce dosage to minimum level as soon as possible. Multibacillary leprosy (in combination with
rifampicin and clofazimine), by mouth, continued for 12 months, ADULT, 100 mg daily; CHILD 10-14 years, 50 mg
daily; CHILD <10 years, 50 mg every other day. Paucibacillary leprosy (in combination with rifampicin), by mouth,
continued for 6 months, ADULT, 10-14 years, 50 mg daily; CHILD <10 years, 50 mg every other day.

Administration

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (Rx)

This may be administered with meals if GI upset occurs; do NOT administer with antacids, alakine foods, or drugs.
NOTE: Stop dapsone if serious skin reaction or muscle weakness occurs.

Dose Adjustment

Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
Use drug with caution for mild to moderate impairment; for severe impairment, the patient should be referred to a
specialist.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:54:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Paucibacillary and multibacillary leprosy; dermatitis herpetiformis.

Contraindications

Severe anemia; porphyria.

Precautions

Sulfonamide allergy (may predispose to dapsone allergy; begin with low dose of dapsone and monitor closely for
adverse effects);
Cardiopulmonary disease or HIV and PCP (tolerate hemolytic anemia and methemoglobinemia);
Susceptibility to hemolysis, including G6PD deficiency, or in patients receiving drugs capable of inducing hemolysis
(including breastfeeding affected infants);
Hemoglobin M deficiency;
Methemoglobin reductase deficiency;
In patients with hepatic or renal disease; dermatologic reactions (serious reactions are rare, but potentially
occurring);
Peripheral neuropathy (motor loss and muscle weakness have been reported with use);
Prolonged use may result in fungal or bacterial superinfection;
Pregnancy (supplementation with folic acid may be necessary if use is warranted; possible risk of hyperbilirubinemia
in neonates);
Breastfeeding (avoid use)

BLOOD DISORDERS. On long-term treatment, patients and their caregivers should be told how to recognize blood
disorders, and advised to seek immediate medical attention of symptoms, such as fever, sore throat, rash, mouth
ulcers, purpura, bruising, or bleeding develop.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Asymptomatic methemoglobinemia, GI symptoms, hemolytic anemia (occurs in most patients taking more
than 200 mg daily); rash (in HIV patients).
Less Common: Allergy, anorexia, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, nervousness, vomiting.
Rare: Agranulocytosis, albuminuria, aplastic anemia, blurred vision, Dapsone syndrome (resembling mononucleosis),
hepatitis, Jarisch-Herxheimer reactions, neutropenia, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy (with doses more than
200 mg daily); psychosis, severe skin reactions (e.g. exfoliative dermatitis).

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:54:40 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects Dapsone:
Antimalarial agents (chloroquine and/or primaquine)

Reduces therapeutic effect of Clofazimine

Mechanism of Action

Antimycobacterial drugs are used in the treatment of diseases caused by members of the Mycobacterium genus,
including tuberculosis (TB) and leprosy. Combination chemotherapy is essential to kill heterogeneous populations of
bacterial cells located in different conditions within the host, and to prevent drug resistance.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3