April 24, 2026, 11:58:54 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DELAMANID

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J04AK06

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antimycobacterials

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Drugs for Treatment of Tuberculosis

CHEMICAL CLASS

Drugs for Tuberculosis

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

UNASSIGNED › 50 mg film-coated tablet (Rx)

Dosage

UNASSIGNED › 50 mg film-coated tablet (Rx)

Combination therapy, by mouth, ADULT ≥18 years, 100 mg twice daily for 24 weeks. (no data in the elderly)

Administration

UNASSIGNED › 50 mg film-coated tablet (Rx)

For oral use. Delamanid should be taken with food. Administer by directly observed therapy and used only in
combination with other antimycobacterial drugs. Emphasize the need for compliance with full course of therapy.
Note: Delamanid must be given in combination with other drugs. Treatment with an appropriate combination
regimen should continue after completion of the 24-week Delamanid treatment period.

Indications

Treatment of pulmonary multi-drug resistant tuberculosis in combination with other drugs.

Page 1 of 2



April 24, 2026, 11:58:54 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to Delamanid, patients with serum albumin <2.8 g/dL.

Precautions

Resistance to Delamanid: Use only in combination with other MDR-TB treatment.
QT Prolongation

Note: Monitor ECG and serum electrolytes.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Incidence >10%: nausea, vomiting, headache, insomnia, dizziness, tinnitus, hypokalemia, gastritis, decreased
appetite, and asthenia

Less Common:
Anemia, eosinophilia, hypertriglyceridemia, psychotic disorder, agitation, anxiety and anxiety disorder, depression
and depressed mood, restlessness, neuropathy peripheral, somnolence, hypoesthesia, dry eye, photophobia, ear
pain, low and high blood pressure, hematoma, hot flush, dyspnea, cough, oropharyngeal pain, throat irritation, dry
throat, rhinorrhea, gastritis, constipation, abdominal pain and discomfort, dyspepsia, dermatitis, urticaria, rash,
pruritus, hyperhidrosis, osteochondrosis, muscular weakness, musculoskeletal pain, pain in extremity, hematuria,
pyrexia, chest pain, malaise, chest discomfort, peripheral edema, increased blood cortisol.

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces the therapeutic effect of Delamanid:
Strong inducers of CYP3A4 (rifampicin, carbamazepine)

Increases the therapeutic effect of Delamanid:
Antiretroviral drugs (lopinavir/tenofovir)

Mechanism of Action

Delamanid is an antimycobacterial which can inhibit the synthesis of mycobacterial cell wall components, methoxy-
mycolic and keto-mycolic acid.

Page 2 of 2