April 24, 2026, 11:16:28 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DEXAMETHASONE (ANTIINFLAMMATORY AGENTS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01BA01

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antiinflammatory Agents

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › 0.1% eye drops suspension, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › 0.1% eye drops suspension, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Anti-inflammatory, into the eye, ADULT, instill 1–2 drops into the conjunctival sac up to 4–6 times daily, may use
hourly for severe inflammation.

Administration

OPHTHALM › 0.1% eye drops suspension, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Shake well prior to use. Do NOT touch tip of container to eye. Product may contain benzalkonium chloride. Do NOT
use contact lenses during treatment. NOTE: Taper dose prior to discontinuation.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric: Use with caution in the smallest possible dose.

Indications

Management of steroid-responsive inflammatory conditions such as allergic conjunctivitis, iritis, or cyclitis;
symptomatic treatment of corneal injury from chemical, radiation, or thermal burns, or penetration of foreign bodies.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:16:28 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Viral disease of the cornea and conjunctiva (including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis, vaccinia, varicella) ;
mycobacterial or fungal infection of the eye.

Precautions

Immunosuppression;
Ocular effects (e.g., ocular hypertension and/or glaucoma
with prolonged use, with damage to the optic nerve,
defects in visual acuity and fields of vision, and posterior
subcapsular cataract formation; perforations in diseases
which cause thinning of the cornea or sclera).
Elderly (evaluate the patient’s or caregiver’s ability to safely
and correctly administer the medication);
Lactation.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common and Less Common:
Burning sensation of eyes,
cataract, decreased visual acuity, eye perforation,
filtering blebs, glaucoma (with optic nerve damage),
secondary ocular infection, stinging of eyes, visual field
defect.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Ceritinib (hyperglycemic effect), Amphotericin B, Loop diuretics e.g., Furosemide (hypokalemia),

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Dexamethasone:
NSAID, Ophthalmic (delayed healing of ophthalmic tissue with concomitant administration)

Mechanism of Action

A topical ophthalmic corticosteroid that decreases inflammation by suppressing neutrophil migration, decreasing
production of inflammatory mediators, and reversing of increased capillary permeability.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:16:28 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3