April 24, 2026, 11:55:14 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DIAZEPAM (ANTIPSYCHOTICS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N05BA01

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psycholeptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Anxiolytics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (Rx)

IM › IV › 5 mg/mL, 2 mL ampule (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (Rx)

NOTE: Oral absorption is more reliable than IM. Acute ethanol withdrawal, by mouth, ADULT, 10 mg 3 to 4 times
during first 24 hours, then decrease to 5 mg 3 to 4 times daily and continue treatment as needed, by intravenous
infusion, ADULT, initially administer 10 mg at a rate of 5 mg/minute, followed by 5-10 mg 3-4 hours later at a rate of 5
mg/minute, if needed, by intramuscular injection, ADULT, initially administer 10 mg, followed by 5-10 mg 3-4 hours
later, if needed. Anxiety (symptoms/disorders), by mouth, ADULT, 2 to 10 mg 2-4 times daily if needed, by
intravenous infusion, ADULT, initially administer 2-10 mg at a rate of 5mg/minute. Repeat in 3-4 hours at a rate of 5
mg/minute, if needed, by intramuscular injection, ADULT, initially administer 2-10 mg. Repeat in 3-4 hours, if
needed. Conscious sedation for procedures, by mouth, CHILD, 0.2 to 0.3 mg/kg (maximum dose: 10 mg) 45 to 60
minutes prior to procedure; Adolescents: 10 mg. by intravenous infusion, Adolescents: 5 mg; may repeat with 2.5
mg if needed. Perioperative anxiety, by intramuscular injection, ADULT, administer 10 mg prior to surgery. Rapid
tranquilization of agitated service user/patient (administer every 30 to 60 minutes), by mouth, ADULT, 5 to 10 mg;
average total dose for tranquilization: 20-60 mg; by iInjection:5 mg per mL, 0.5 mL-1 mL every 30-60 minutes
provided that the vital signs are monitored Sedation or muscle relaxation or anxiety, by mouth, CHILD, 0.12 to 0.8
mg/kg/day in divided doses every 6 to 8 hours. IV or IM, CHILD, 0.04 to 0.3 mg/kg/dose every 2 to 4 hours to a
maximum of 0.6 mg/kg within an 8-hour period if needed. Sedation in the ICU service user/patient, by intravenous
infusion, ADULT, Loading dose: 5 to 10 mg; Maintenance dose: 0.03 to 0.1 mg/kg every 30 minutes to 6 hours.
Skeletal muscle relaxant (adjunct therapy), by mouth, ADULT, 2-10 mg 3-4 times daily.

Page 1 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:55:14 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (Rx)

Note: Do not mix IV product with other medications. When given intravenously, continuous infusion is not
recommended because of precipitation in IV fluids and absorption of drug into infusion bags and tubing. In
children, do not exceed 1 to 2 mg/minute IVP; in adults 5 mg/minute. WARNING: Parenterally administered
diazepam may cause hypotension and/or respiratory depression, particularly if the drug is administered too rapidly
IV. When given IV, diazepam should be administered directly into a large vein to avoid thrombosis; if this is not
feasible, the drug should be given into the tubing of a flowing IV solution as close as possible to the vein insertion.
Small veins such as those of the wrist or the dorsum of the hand should not be used. Care should be taken to avoid
intra-arterial administration or extravasation. Alternatively, some clinicians have suggested IV administration of
dilute solutions of the drug to avoid extravasation; however, the drug may precipitate when diluted and the
manufacturers do not recommend this method of administration. Although diazepam may also be given by deep IM
injection, this route of administration of the drug is rarely justified because absorption is slow and erratic. Therapy
with oral diazepam should replace parenteral administration as soon as possible. WARNING: Diazepam is a
vesicant; ensure proper needle or catheter placement prior to and during infusion; avoid extravasation.
Extravasation management: If extravasation occurs, stop IV administration immediately and disconnect (leave
cannula/needle in place) ; gently aspirate extravasated solution (do NOT flush the line) ; remove needle/cannula;
elevate extremity. Apply dry cold compresses. See Diazepam under Other Antiepileptics in Antiepileptics for other
information.

Dose Adjustment

Debilitated Patients/Geriatric:
Oral: Initially 2-2.5 mg once or twice daily. Slowly increase as needed and tolerated.

NOTE: Due to its long-acting metabolite, diazepam is not considered a drug of choice in the elderly. Long-acting
benzodiazepines have been associated with falls in the elderly.

Renal Impairment:
Initially 2-2.5 mg once or twice daily. Slowly increase as needed and tolerated.

NOTE: Hemodialysis – Not dialyzable (0%-5%); supplemental dose is not necessary.

Hepatic Impairment:
Initially 2-2.5 mg once or twice daily and slowly increase as needed and tolerated for mild to moderate hepatic
impairment. Contraindicated in severe hepatic impairment. If treatment is necessary, benzodiazepines with shorter
half lives are safer, such as temazepam or oxazepam.

Page 2 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:55:14 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Short-term management of anxiety disorders, symptoms of anxiety, ethanol withdrawal symptoms, skeletal muscle
relaxant, convulsive disorders (adjunct), preoperative or preprocedural sedation and amnesia or perioperative
anxiety (injection only), anxiety during endoscopic procedures (adjunct, injection only), anxiety relief prior to
cardioversion (IV), acute agitation, tremor, impending or acute delirium tremens, hallucinosis in acute alcohol
withdrawal, skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathology, spasticity caused by upper motor neuron
disorder, athethosis, Stiffman syndrome, initial treatment of status epilepticus

NOTE: Diazepam does not have analgesic, antidepressant, or antipsychotic properties.

Page 3 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:55:14 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Myasthenia gravis; severe respiratory insufficiency; severe hepatic insufficiency; sleep apnea syndrome; acute
narrow-angle glaucoma; not for use in infants <6 months of age (oral).

Precautions

WARNING: Concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression,
coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment
options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients for signs and
symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.

When given IV, there is a risk of propylene glycol toxicity; monitor closely if using for prolonged periods or at high
doses.

To be prescribed and dispensed through Yellow Rx. Only one (1) drug preparation shall be prescribed in one single
prescription form. Partial filling allowed. STRICTLY NO REFILL.

Diazepam 5 mg requires an S-2 license for physicians to be able to prescribe it and an S-1 license with a triplicate
prescription for pharmacists to dispense it.

Anterograde amnesia; CNS depression;
Opioids–should be reduced by approximately one third when diazepam is added;
Psychiatric and paradoxical reactions (discontinue if reactions occur);
Convulsive disorders (abrupt withdrawal - seizures); Depression;
Drug abuse; tolerance, psychological and physical dependence may occur with prolonged used (generally
>10 days);
Hepatic and renal impairment; Impaired gag reflex;
Post-traumatic Stress Disorder;
Respiratory disease (lower dose is recommended for chronic insufficiency).

Special populations:
Debilitated/elderly patients; Obese patients (prolonged action when discontinued).
Psychotic patients (use of diazepam is not recommended in place of appropriate therapy.
Pregnancy (not recommended during pregnancy, especially during the first trimester. Drug should be tapered if
discontinued. Women who have seizures in the second half of pregnancy should be assessed for eclampsia before
any change is made to antiepileptic treatment.
Lactation (Because diazepam and its metabolites may be present in breast milk for prolonged periods following
administration, it is recommended to discontinue breast- feeding for an appropriate period of time.).
Benzyl alcohol and derivatives (potentially fatal toxicity “gasping syndrome” in neonates).

MONITORING PARAMETERS: Respiratory, cardiovascular, and mental status; check for orthostasis. /For critically ill
mechanically-ventilated service patients: Monitor depth of sedation with either the Richmond Agitation Sedation
Scale (RASS) or Sedation-Agitation Scale (SAS).

STORAGE AND STABILITY: Injection: Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F) ; excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F
to 86°F). Protect from light. Potency is retained for up to 3 months when kept at room temperature. Most stable at pH
48; hydrolysis occurs at pH <3. Tablet: Store at 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F).

Page 4 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:55:14 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

NOTE: Adverse reactions may vary by route of administration.

Common: Localized phlebitis, vasodilatation, amnesia, ataxia, confusion, depression, drowsiness the next day,
lightheadedness the next day, dysarthria, muscle weakness, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, pain at injection site;
tremor, asthma, bradypnea; paradoxical increase in aggression.

Less common: Changes in libido (in adults), dizziness, dysarthria, gastro-intestinal disturbances, gynecomastia,
headache, hypotension (in adults), incontinence, salivation changes, slurred speech, tremor, urinary retention,
vertigo, visual disturbances.

Rare: Apnea, changes in libido (in children) respiratory depression (overdose), hepatic dysfunction, renal
dysfunction, blood disorders, hallucinations, mania, hypotension (in children), jaundice, skin reactions.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances the toxic/adverse effects of SSRIs (psychomotor impairment)

Enhances the toxic/adverse effects of diazepam: Cosyntropin (hepatotoxic)
CNS depressants (central effects)
Flumazenil (precipitate seizures)

Enhances the sedative effect of the following drugs: Pramipexole, Ropinirole, Rotigotine

Decreases therapeutic effect of diazepam: Theophylline derivatives e.g. Aminophylline

FOOD INTERACTIONS: Diazepam serum concentrations may be decreased if taken with food. Grapefruit juice may
increase diazepam serum concentrations. Avoid concurrent use of grapefruit juice. Maintain adequate hydration,
unless instructed to restrict fluid intake.

TEST INTERACTIONS: False-negative urinary glucose determinations when using Clinistix® or Diastix®.

Mechanism of Action

Diazepam is a benzodiazepine that exerts anxiolytic, sedative, muscle- relaxant, anticonvulsant and amnestic effects
due to its facilitation of the action of gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA), an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central
nervous system.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 5 of 5