April 25, 2026, 2:59:59 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DIPHTHERIA-TETANUS TOXOIDS AND ACELLULAR PERTUSSIS
VACCINE (DTaP)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J07AJ52

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Vaccines

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Bacterial Vaccines

CHEMICAL CLASS

Pertussis Vaccines

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › 0.5 mL pre-filled syringe (Rx)

IM › 0.5 mL vial (Rx)

Dosage

IM › 0.5 mL pre-filled syringe (Rx)

NOTE: Whenever possible, use the same product for all doses. Interruption of recommended schedule does not
require starting the series over. A delay between doses should not interfere with final immunity. Primary
immunization, by IM injection, CHILD and INFANT 6 weeks to <7 years, five 0.5 mL doses administered as follows:
Three doses at 2, 4, and 5 months of age; may be given as early as 6 weeks of age and repeated every 4–8 weeks;
Fourth doses at ~15 to 20 months of age but at least 6 months after third dose; may be given as early as 12 months
of age; Fifth doses at 4–6 years of age, prior to starting school or kindergarten; if fourth dose is given at ≥4 years
of age, the fifth dose may be omitted. Booster immunization, by IM injection, ADULT ≥19 years, 0.5 mL as a single
dose 5 years after last dose of tetanus toxoid, diphtheria toxoid, and/or pertussis-containing vaccine [NOTE:
Administer a single dose to replace a single dose of the 10 year Td booster in patients who have not previously
received Tdap or for whom vaccine status is not known];CHILD ≥10 years and ADOLESCENT ≤18 years, 0.5 mL as a
single dose 5 years after last dose of tetanus toxoid, diphtheria toxoid, and/or pertussis-containing vaccine
[NOTE: Administer as a single booster dose at 11 or 12 years of age in adolescents who have completed a childhood
DTaP vaccination series, followed by booster doses of Td every 10 years. Adolescents who have not received Tdap
at age 11 or 12 should receive a single dose of Tdap in place of a single Td booster dose]. For Wound Management,
see Diphtheria-Tetanus Toxoid (Td) under Vaccines – Bacterial Vaccines in Chapter 7: Anti-infectives for Systemic
Use for other information.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:59:59 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IM › 0.5 mL pre-filled syringe (Rx)

For IM administration only into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh or the deltoid muscle. Do NOT administer by IV
or SC. Shake suspension well before use. Store at 2–8°C. Freezing is the most common cause of vaccine damage.
Do NOT use a defrosted vaccine unless freezing is the recommended storage condition. Administer vaccines
while patient is seated or lying down to prevent syncope related injuries. NOTE: For patients at risk of hemorrhage
following IM injection, administer by IM only if, in the opinion of the physician familiar with the patient's bleeding
risk, the vaccine can be administered by this route with reasonable safety. If the patient receives antihemophilia or
other similar therapy, IM vaccination can be scheduled shortly after such therapy is administered. Patients on
anticoagulant therapy should be considered to have the same bleeding risks and treated as those with clotting
factor disorders. Administer to travelers regardless of the limitations if time is short. See Diphtheria-Tetanus
Toxoids (DT) under Vaccines – Bacterial Vaccines in Chapter 7: Antiinfectives for Systemic Use for other
information.

Indications

Active immunization against diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to diphtheria, tetanus toxoids, pertussis, or any component of the formulation; progressive
neurologic disorder, including infantile spasms, uncontrolled epilepsy or progressive epilepsy; encephalopathy
occurring within 7 days of administration and not attributable to another cause

Precautions

Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions;
Arthus-type hypersensitivity; syncope (has been reported with use);
Acute illness;
Bleeding disorders, including thrombocytopenia;
Guillain-Barré syndrome;
Altered immunocompetence (may have a reduced response to vaccination);
Children (pediatric dosage form (DT) should only be used in patients 6 weeks to ≤6 years of age;
Administer Td for children ≥7 years of age; apnea has occurred following administration in premature infants).
Pregnancy (reproduction studies have not been conducted);
Lactation (not known if excreted into breast milk; inactivated vaccines do not affect the safety of breastfeeding for
the mother or the infant).

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:59:59 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Apathy, drowsiness, irritability, lethargy, headache, fatigue, chills, skin rash, increased arm circumference,
GI disease, adenopathy, injection site reactions (erythema, pain, edema, tenderness, swelling), crying (prolonged or
persistent), fever, fussiness, myalgia, arthralgia
Less Common: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, apnea, back pain, brain disease, bronchitis, cellulitis, cough, cyanosis,
diabetes mellitus, diarrhea, encephalitis, erythema, facial paralysis, fatigue, Guillain-Barré syndrome,
hypersensitivity reaction, headache, hypoesthesia, hypotonia, hypotonic or hyporesponsive episode, IgA vasculitis,
immune thrombocytopenia, infantile spasm, injection site reaction (bruising, induration, mass, nodule, pruritus, rash,
sterile abscess, warmth), intussusception, lymphadenitis, lymphadenopathy, myalgia, myocarditis, myositis, nausea,
nerve compression, otalgia, paresthesia, peripheral edema (extensive), pruritus, respiratory tract infection,
screaming, seizure, sudden infant death syndrome, syncope, thrombocytopenia, urticaria

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Diphtheria-Tetanus Toxoids:
Belimumab
Fingolimod [administer at least 2 weeks apart; if vaccinated during fingolimod therapy, revaccinate 2–3 months after
fingolimod discontinuation]
Immunosuppressants [Cytarabine, Liposomal] [administer at least 2 weeks apart; if vaccinated during
immunosuppressant therapy, revaccinate at least 3 months after immunosuppressant discontinuation]
Meningococcal Polysaccharide (Groups A / C / Y and W135) Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate Vaccine [administer the
meningococcal polysaccharide (groups A / C / Y and W135) tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine either together with or
at least one month before a tetanus toxoids-containing vaccine]

Mechanism of Action

A three-component preparation of diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, and acellular pertussis vaccine that promotes
active immunity to diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis by inducing production of specific antibodies.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3