April 25, 2026, 3:00:10 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DIPHTHERIA-TETANUS TOXOID (Td)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J07AM51

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Vaccines

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Bacterial Vaccines

CHEMICAL CLASS

Tetanus Vaccines

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › ≥ 2 IU diphtheria toxoid + ≥ 40 IU tetanus toxoid per 0.5 mL ampule (For 7 yrs. old and above) (Rx)

IM › ≥ 2 IU diphtheria toxoid + ≥ 40 IU tetanus toxoid per 0.5 mL , multidose vial (10 doses per vial) (Rx)

Dosage

IM › ≥ 2 IU diphtheria toxoid + ≥ 40 IU tetanus toxoid per 0.5 mL ampule (For 7 yrs. old and above) (Rx)

Primary immunization, by IM injection, ADULT (NOT previously immunized), 2 primary doses of 0.5 mL each, given at
an interval of 8 weeks, then a third (reinforcing) dose of 0.5 mL 6–8 months later. Booster immunization, by IM
injection, ADULT (with complete primary immunization series), 0.5 mL every 10 years; CHILD 11–12 years, 0.5 mL as a
single dose when at least 5 years have elapsed since last dose of toxoid-containing vaccine; subsequent routine
doses are not recommended more often than every 10 years [NOTE: If Tdap is given as part of catchup dosing at 7–
10 years of age, the 11–12 year booster is not needed; regular Td booster immunizations should begin 10 years after
the last dose of the primary series]. Tetanus prophylaxis in wound management should be based on if the status
of the wound (clean or contaminated) and the immunization status of the patient. Wound management includes
proper use of tetanus toxoid and/or tetanus immune globulin (TIG), wound cleaning, and (if required) surgical
debridement and the proper use of antibiotics. Clean Minor Wounds History of Immunization Doses: Uncertain or
<3 doses Tetanus Toxoid: Yes TIG: No History of Immunization Doses: 3 or more doses Tetanus Toxoid: No, Yes if
≥10 years since last dose TIG: No All Other Wounds History of Immunization Doses: Uncertain or <3 doses Tetanus
Toxoid: Yes TIG: Yes History of Immunization Doses: 3 or more doses Tetanus Toxoid: No, Yes if ≥5 years TIG: No

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 3:00:10 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IM › ≥ 2 IU diphtheria toxoid + ≥ 40 IU tetanus toxoid per 0.5 mL ampule (For 7 yrs. old and above) (Rx)

For IM administration only into the deltoid muscle. Do NOT administer by IV or SC administration. Shake suspension
well before use. Do NOT mix with other vaccines or injections. Use different needles and syringes for each
injection. Administer while patient is seated or lying down to prevent syncope related injuries. NOTE: For patients
at risk of hemorrhage following IM injection, administer by IM only if, in the opinion of the physician familiar with the
patient's bleeding risk, the vaccine can be administered by this route with reasonable safety. Use a fine needle (23
gauge or smaller) and apply firm pressure to the site (without rubbing) for at least 2 minutes. If the patient
receives anti-hemophilia or other similar therapy, intramuscular vaccination can be scheduled shortly after such
therapy is administered. Patients on anticoagulant therapy should be considered to have the same bleeding risks
and treated as those with clotting factor disorders.

Indications

Tetanus and diphtheria toxoids adsorbed for adult use

NOTE: For 10 years old and above.

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to diphtheria, tetanus toxoid, or any component of the formulation

Precautions

Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions;
Arthus-type hypersensitivity; syncope (has been reported with use);
Acute illness;
Bleeding disorders, including thrombocytopenia;
Guillain-Barré syndrome;
Altered immunocompetence (may have a reduced response to vaccination);
Children (pediatric dosage form (DT) should only be used in patients 6 weeks to ≤6 years of age;
Administer Td for children ≥7 years of age; apnea has occurred following administration in premature infants).
Pregnancy (reproduction studies have not been conducted);
Lactation (not known if excreted into breast milk; inactivated vaccines do not affect the safety of breastfeeding for
the mother or the infant).

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 3:00:10 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Headache, tiredness, chills, fever, rash, lymph node swelling, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, injection site
reactions (pain, erythema, swelling), body ache, muscle weakness, sore or swollen joints
Less Common: Allergic reactions, anaphylactic reactions, arthralgia, dizziness, fatigue, injection site reactions
(cellulitis, induration, nodules, warmth), lymphadenopathy, musculoskeletal stiffness, myalgia, pain, pain in
extremities, paresthesia, peripheral edema, seizure, syncope, weakness

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Diphtheria-Tetanus Toxoids:
Belimumab
Fingolimod [administer at least 2 weeks apart; if vaccinated during fingolimod therapy, revaccinate 2–3 months after
fingolimod discontinuation]
Immunosuppressants [Cytarabine, Liposomal] [administer at least 2 weeks apart; if vaccinated during
immunosuppressant therapy, revaccinate at least 3 months after immunosuppressant discontinuation]
Meningococcal Polysaccharide (Groups A / C / Y and W135) Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate Vaccine [administer the
meningococcal polysaccharide (groups A / C / Y and W135) tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine either together with or
at least one month before a tetanus toxoids-containing vaccine]

Mechanism of Action

A combination vaccine that promotes active immunity to diphtheria and tetanus by inducing production of specific
antibodies.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3