April 25, 2026, 3:00:15 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DIPHTHERIA-TETANUS TOXOIDS (DT)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J07AM51

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Vaccines

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Bacterial Vaccines

CHEMICAL CLASS

Tetanus Vaccines

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › 30 IU diphtheria toxoid + 40 IU tetanus toxoid per 0.5 mL ampule (Rx)

Dosage

IM › 30 IU diphtheria toxoid + 40 IU tetanus toxoid per 0.5 mL ampule (Rx)

Primary immunization, by IM injection, CHILD 6 weeks to ≤6 years, 0.5-mL administered as follows: First 3 doses at
2, 4, and 6 months of age; may be given as early as 6 weeks of age and repeated every 4–8 weeks; Fourth dose at
~15 to 18 months of age, but at least 6 months after third dose; may be given as early as 12 months of age, but at
least 6 months after third dose and the fourth dose; Fifth dose at 4–6 years of age, prior to starting school or
kindergarten; if the fourth dose is given at ≥4 years of age, fifth dose may be omitted [NOTE: For use when
pertussis-containing vaccine is contraindicated]. Booster immunization, by IM injection, CHILD, refer to Diphtheria
and Tetanus Toxoids and Acellular Pertussis Vaccine monograph for additional information.

Administration

IM › 30 IU diphtheria toxoid + 40 IU tetanus toxoid per 0.5 mL ampule (Rx)

For IM administration only. Administer into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh or the deltoid muscle. Do NOT
inject in the gluteal area. Do NOT inject by IV or SC. Shake suspension well before use. Do NOT mix with other
vaccines or injections. Use different needles and syringes for each injection. Administer while patient is seated or
lying down to prevent syncope related injuries. NOTE: For patients at risk of hemorrhage following IM injection,
administer by IM only if, in the opinion of the physician familiar with the patient's bleeding risk, the vaccine can be
administered by this route with reasonable safety. Use a fine needle (23 gauge or smaller) and apply firm pressure
to the site (without rubbing) for at least 2 minutes. If the patient receives anti-hemophilia or other similar therapy,
intramuscular vaccination can be scheduled shortly after such therapy is administered. Patients on anticoagulant
therapy should be considered to have the same bleeding risks and treated as those with clotting factor disorders.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 3:00:15 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

For primary and booster immunization against diphtheria and tetanus in infants and children 6 weeks up to 7 years of
age.

NOTE: For less than 10 years old

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to diphtheria, tetanus toxoid, or any component of the formulation

Precautions

Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions;
Arthus-type hypersensitivity; syncope (has been reported with use);
Acute illness;
Bleeding disorders, including thrombocytopenia;
Guillain-Barré syndrome;
Altered immunocompetence (may have a reduced response to vaccination);
Children (pediatric dosage form (DT) should only be used in patients 6 weeks to ≤6 years of age;
Administer Td for children ≥7 years of age; apnea has occurred following administration in premature infants).
Pregnancy (reproduction studies have not been conducted);
Lactation (not known if excreted into breast milk; inactivated vaccines do not affect the safety of breastfeeding for
the mother or the infant).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Headache, tiredness, chills, fever, rash, lymph node swelling, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, injection site
reactions (pain, erythema, swelling), body ache, muscle weakness, sore or swollen joints
Less Common: Allergic reactions, anaphylactic reactions, arthralgia, dizziness, fatigue, injection site reactions
(cellulitis, induration, nodules, warmth), lymphadenopathy, musculoskeletal stiffness, myalgia, pain, pain in
extremities, paresthesia, peripheral edema, seizure, syncope, weakness

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 3:00:15 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Diphtheria-Tetanus Toxoids:
Belimumab
Fingolimod [administer at least 2 weeks apart; if vaccinated during fingolimod therapy, revaccinate 2–3 months after
fingolimod discontinuation]
Immunosuppressants [Cytarabine, Liposomal] [administer at least 2 weeks apart; if vaccinated during
immunosuppressant therapy, revaccinate at least 3 months after immunosuppressant discontinuation]
Meningococcal Polysaccharide (Groups A / C / Y and W135) Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate Vaccine [administer the
meningococcal polysaccharide (groups A / C / Y and W135) tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine either together with or
at least one month before a tetanus toxoids-containing vaccine]

Mechanism of Action

A combination vaccine that promotes active immunity to diphtheria and tetanus by inducing production of specific
antibodies.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3