April 25, 2026, 3:00:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DIPHTHERIA-TETANUS TOXOIDS AND PERTUSSIS VACCINE
(DTP)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J07AJ51

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Vaccines

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Bacterial Vaccines

CHEMICAL CLASS

Pertussis Vaccines

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › 0.5 mL ampule (Rx)

IM › 0.5 mL pre-filled syringe (Rx)

IM › 0.5 mL vial (Rx)

IM › 5 mL vial (Rx)

IM › 7.5 mL vial (Rx)

IM › 10 mL vial (Rx)

Dosage

IM › 0.5 mL ampule (Rx)

Primary immunization, by IM injection, ADULT, 0.5 mL; CHILD 1–6 years of age, two 0.5 mL doses separated by an
interval of 2 months, administer a third dose after 6–12 months; INFANT ≥6 weeks, three 0.5 mL doses with an
interval of at least 4 weeks between each dose.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 3:00:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IM › 0.5 mL ampule (Rx)

For IM administration only into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh or the deltoid muscle. Do NOT administer by IV
or SC. Shake suspension well before use. Store at 2–8°C. Freezing is the most common cause of vaccine damage.
Do NOT use a defrosted vaccine unless freezing is the recommended storage condition. Administer vaccines
while patient is seated or lying down to prevent syncope related injuries. NOT recommended for adolescents and
adults. NOTE: For patients at risk of hemorrhage following IM injection, administer by IM only if, in the opinion of
the physician familiar with the patient's bleeding risk, the vaccine can be administered by this route with
reasonable safety. If the patient receives anti-hemophilia or other similar therapy, IM vaccination can be scheduled
shortly after such therapy is administered. Patients on anticoagulant therapy should be considered to have the
same bleeding risks and treated as those with clotting factor disorders. Administer to travelers regardless of the
limitations if time is short.

Indications

Active immunization against diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to the any component of the formulation; severe acute neurological illness within 7 days of
pertussis vaccination; thrombocytopenia or any coagulation disorders

Precautions

Whole cell pertussis component is associated with more frequent minor adverse effects than acellular pertussis
component.
Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions (immediate treatment, including epinephrine 1:1000 should be available
during vaccine use);
Arthus-type hypersensitivity; syncope (has been reported with use);
Acute illness;
Bleeding disorders, including Guillain-Barré syndrome;
Neurologic disorders;
Thrombocytopenia;
Immunodeficiency.
Elderly (frequency of adverse effects increases with age and number of injections);
Children with proven, or suspected, underlying active or progressive neurologic disorders;
Pregnancy (adult vaccine may be used if necessary)

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 3:00:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Crying, drowsiness, irritability, limb swelling, restlessness
Less Common: Fever, lethargy, malaise, myalgia, transient injection site reactions (pain, redness, itching, burning,
small hard lump that persists for some weeks)
Rare: Allergic reactions including anaphylaxis, collapse, encephalopathy, headache, hypotonic-hyporesponsive
episodes, seizure, urticaria, peripheral neuropathy,

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Other vaccines and immunoglobulins [administer at least 4 weeks apart]

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Anti-infectives (may interfere with the development of a protective immune response)
Immunosuppressive Agents e.g. Corticosteroids Antineoplastic (decreases antibody response)

Mechanism of Action

A three-component preparation of diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (whole-cell) vaccines whose rates of local and
systemic reactions are higher than acellular pertussis vaccine.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B / C (product specific)

Page 3 of 3