April 25, 2026, 12:09:58 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DOCETAXEL

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

L01CD02

ANATOMICAL

Antineoplastic and Immunomodulating Agents

THERAPEUTIC

Antineoplastic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Plant Alkaloids and Other Natural Products

CHEMICAL CLASS

Taxanes

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 10 mg/mL solution for infusion, 2 mL vial (Rx)

IV › 10 mg/mL solution for infusion, 8 mL vial (Rx)

IV INFUSION › 20 mg/0.5 mL (anhydrous), 0.5 mL vial (Rx)

IV INFUSION › 20 mg/mL concentrate for solution (as trihydrate), 1 mL (Rx)

IV INFUSION › 40 mg/mL (anhydrous), 2 mL vial (Rx)

IV INFUSION › 80 mg/4 mL concentrate for solution (as trihydrate), 4 mL (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 10 mg/mL solution for infusion, 2 mL vial (Rx)

Breast cancer, locally advanced or metastatic, by IV infusion, ADULT, as combination therapy, 75 mg/m2 every 3
weeks; as a single agent, 100 mg/m2 every 3 weeks. Breast cancer, operable, node-positive, adjuvant treatment,
by IV infusion, ADULT, in combination with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, 75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks for 6
courses. Gastric adenocarcinoma, by IV infusion, ADULT, in combination with cisplatin and fluorouracil, 75 mg/m2
every 3 weeks. Locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC, metastatic ovarian cancer, recurrent and/or metastatic
head and neck cancer, by IV infusion, ADULT, as combination therapy, 75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks; as a single agent,
100 mg/m2 every 3 weeks. Metastatic prostate cancer, hormone-refractory, by IV infusion, ADULT, in combination
with prednisone or prednisolone, 75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks.

Page 1 of 5



April 25, 2026, 12:09:58 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IV › 10 mg/mL solution for infusion, 2 mL vial (Rx)

Dilute with NS or D5W to a final concentration of 0.3-0.74 mg/mL, and prepare in a glass bottle, polypropylene, or
polyolefin plastic bag to prevent leaching of plasticizers. Non-PVC tubing must be used. Preparation instructions
may vary by manufacturer, refer to specific prescribing information. NOTE: Extravasation may cause significant
irritation. Ensure proper needle or catheter placement prior to and during infusion. If extravasation occurs,
discontinue immediately and initiate appropriate extravasation management, including local injection of
hyaluronidase and moderate heat application to the affected area. Use a separate vein to administer any remaining
portion of the dose. Some preparations contain alcohol, which may affect the CNS and cause symptoms of alcohol
intoxication. Pre-medicate with corticosteroids for 3 days, beginning 1 day prior to docetaxel administration, to
reduce the severity of hypersensitivity reactions and fluid retention. Patients being treated for prostate cancer
with concurrent prednisone should be premedicated with oral dexamethasone at 12 hours, 3 hours, and 1 hour
prior to docetaxel administration.

Dose Adjustment

Hepatic Impairment:
If total bilirubin is greater than the ULN, or if AST and/or ALT
>1.5 times ULN concomitant with alkaline phosphatase
>2.5 times ULN, use is not recommended.

Specific for gastric or head and neck cancer:
AST/ALT >2.5 to =5 times ULN and alkaline phosphatase =2.5 times ULN, administer 80% of dose.
AST/ALT >1.5 to =5 times ULN and alkaline phosphatase >2.5 to =5 times ULN, administer 80% of dose.
AST/ALT >5 times ULN and /or alkaline phosphatase >5 times ULN, discontinue use.

Obesity:
Use actual body weight (full weight) for calculation of BSAbased or weight-based dosing, especially if the intent of
therapy is curative.
If dose reduction is done due to toxicity, consider resumption of full weight-based dosing with subsequent cycles,
especially if cause of toxicity is resolved.

Indications

Treatment of locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer (adjuvant treatment of operable nodepositive); treatment
of advanced gastric adenocarcinoma; treatment of recurrent and/or metastatic squamous cell head and neck
cancer; treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC; treatment of metastatic ovarian cancer following failure
of first-lineor subsequent chemotherapy; treatment of hormone refractory, metastatic prostate cancer

Page 2 of 5



April 25, 2026, 12:09:58 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to other medications containing polysorbate 80; neutrophil count <1,500/mm3, severe hepatic
impairment; pregnancy; breastfeeding

Precautions

WARNING: Patients with abnormal liver function, those receiving higher doses, and patients with NSCLC and a
history of prior treatment with platinum derivatives who receive single-agent docetaxel at a dose of 100 mg/m2 are
at higher risk for treatment-related mortality.

Avoid use in patients with bilirubin exceeding upper limit of normal (ULN) or AST and/or ALT >1.5 times ULN in
conjunction with alkaline phosphatase >2.5 times ULN. Patients with isolated transaminase elevations >1.5 times
ULN at an increased risk of neutropenic fever, although no increased incidence of toxic death.

Do NOT give to patients with neutrophil counts of <1,500 cells/mm3. Perform frequent blood cell counts to monitor
occurrence of neutropenia.

Do NOT administer to patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity to docetaxel or polysorbate 80. Severe
hypersensitivity reactions, characterized by generalized rash or erythema, hypotension, bronchospasms, or
anaphylaxis may occur and may be fatal.

Severe fluid retention, characterized by pleural effusion, ascites, peripheral edema, dyspnea at rest, cardiac
tamponade, generalized edema, and weight gain, has been reported.

WARNING: Hazardous agent. Use appropriate precautions for handling and disposal.

Bone marrow suppression (neutropenia may occur; neutropenia is the dose limiting toxicity; platelets should be
>100,000/mm3 prior to treatment; patients with increased liver function tests may experience more episodes of
neutropenia with more frequent severe infections);

Cutaneous reactions (e.g. erythema with edema and desquamation)

Fluid retention (may begin as lower extremity peripheral edema and become generalized; weight gain may be around
2 kg; administer corticosteroid, starting 1 day prior to administration, to reduce the incidence and severity of fluid
retention).

Hepatic impairment (increased risk of grade 4 neutropenia, infections, stomatitis, severe thrombocytopenia, skin
toxicity, or toxic death).

Hypersensitivity reactions (severe reactions occur; minor reactions include flushing or localized skin reactions;
discontinue for severe reactions; administer corticosteroid, starting 1 day prior to administration, to prevent or
reduce the severity ofhypersensitivity reactions)

Neurosensory symptoms (e.g. paresthesia, dysesthesia, neuropathic pain; reversal of symptoms may be delayed
after discontinuation).

Ocular adverse effects (cystoid macular edema may occur; promptly administer a comprehensive ophthalmic exam if
vision impairment occurs; majority experience tearing which subsided after therapy completion)

Page 3 of 5



April 25, 2026, 12:09:58 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Secondary malignancies (treatment-related AML or myelodysplasia)

Weakness (fatigue or weakness may occur; weakness may be severe, lasting for a few days up to several weeks).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Alopecia, anemia (dose-dependent), arthralgia, CNS toxicity (including neuropathy), decreased left
ventricular ejection fraction, dermatological reaction, diarrhea, dysgeusia, epiphora (associated with canalicular
stenosis), febrile neutropenia (dosedependent), fever, fluid retention (dose-dependent), hypotension, infection
(dose-dependent), infusion site reactions (including hyperpigmentation, inflammation, redness, dryness, phlebitis,
extravasation, swelling of the vein), leukopenia, myalgia, nail disease, nausea, neuromuscular reaction, neutropenia
(dose-dependent), peripheral motor neuropathy (mainly distal extremity weakness), pulmonary reaction, stomatitis,
thrombocytopenia (dose-dependent), vomiting, weakness

Less Common: Abdominal pain, acute myelocytic leukemia, acute respiratory distress, anorexia, anaphylactic shock,
ascites, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, AV block, bronchospasm, cardiac arrhythmia, cardiac failure, cardiac
tamponade, bradycardia, chest pain, chest tightness, colitis, confusion, conjunctivitis, constipation, cystoid macular
edema, deepvein thrombosis, dehydration, disease of the lacrimal apparatus (duct obstruction), disseminated
intravascular coagulation, drug fever, duodenal ulcer, ECG abnormality, dyspnea, erythema multiforme, esophagitis,
gastrointestinal hemorrhage, GI obstruction, GI perforation, hearing loss, hemorrhagic diathesis, hepatitis,
hypertension, hyponatremia, intestinalobstruction, interstitial pulmonary disease, ischemic colitis, ischemic heart
disease, loss of consciousness (transient), lymphedema (peripheral), multiorgan failure, lacrimation, myelodysplastic
syndrome, pain, myocardial infarction, neutropenic enterocolitis, ototoxicity, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia,
pericardial effusion, pleural effusion, pneumonia, pneumonitis, pulmonary edema,pulmonary embolism, pulmonary
fibrosis, pruritus, radiation pneumonitis, radiation recall phenomenon, renal failure, renal insufficiency, respiratory
failure, skin changes (scleroderma-like), seizure, sepsis, sinus tachycardia, SJS, subacute cutaneous lupus
erythematosus, syncope, tachycardia, thrombophlebitis, TEN, unstable angina pectoris, visual disturbance
(transient)

Page 4 of 5



April 25, 2026, 12:09:58 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Docetaxel: Trastuzumab (neutropenic effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Docetaxel: Denosumab (serious infections)
Reduces diagnostic effect of Coccidioides immitis Skin Test

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases metabolism of Docetaxel: Antifungal Agents, Azole Derivatives, Systemic [except Fluconazole]
Decreases serum concentration of Docetaxel: Dabrafenib, Mitotane
Enhances therapeutic effect of Docetaxel: Platinum Derivatives [e.g., Cisplatin, Carboplatin, Oxaliplatin
(myelosuppressive effect)], Roflumilast (immunosuppressive effect)
Enhances therapeutic effect of Tofacitinib (immunosuppressive effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Antineoplastic Agents [Anthracycline, Systemic
(e.g., Doxorubicin, Epirubicin, Idarubicin)], Clozapine (agranulocytosis), Dipyrone (agranulocytosis, pancytopenia),
Leflunomide (hematologic toxicity such as pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, and/or thrombocytopenia), Natalizumab
(concurrent infection)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Docetaxel: Pimecrolimus, Tacrolimus (Topical)
Increases serum concentration of Docetaxel: Dronedarone, Fusidic Acid (Systemic), Mifepristone,
Reduces therapeutic effect of Docetaxel: Echinacea
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: BCG (Intravesical), Vaccines (live virus vaccines may progress to
infection)

Mechanism of Action

A taxane derivative that inhibits DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis by preventing the depolymerization of
microtubules during cell division, specifically during the M phase.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 5 of 5