April 25, 2026, 12:11:27 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DOXYCYCLINE (OTHER ANTIMALARIALS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J01AA02

ANATOMICAL

Antiparasitic Products, Insecticides, and Repellents

THERAPEUTIC

Antiprotozoals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Antimalarials

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 100 mg capsule (as hyclate) (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 100 mg capsule (as hyclate) (Rx)

2nd line treatment for Uncomplicated malaria due to P. falciparum or P. malariae, second-line treatment (in
combination with quinine sulfate, 10 mg/ kg every 8 hours for 7 days and primaquine tablet, 15 mg (0.24 mg base per
kg) on day 1; 3 tablets for adults >60 kg), by mouth, ADULT, 100 mg 2 times daily for 7 days. Prophylaxis of
chloroquine-resistant malaria, beginning 1-2 days before travel to malarious area up to 4 weeks after leaving,
ADULT, 100 mg daily CHILD ≥ 8 years, 2.2 mg ∙base/ kg daily. Chloroquine-resistant falciparum malaria acute attack,
ADULT, 200 mg daily for at least 7 days, with or after treatment with quinine. NOTE: Refer to DOH Public Health
Program on Malaria for more details.

Administration

ORAL › 100 mg capsule (as hyclate) (Rx)

Capsules should be swallowed whole with plenty of fluid (a full glass of water). Remain sitting or standing (for at
least 30 minutes) to prevent esophageal irritation or damage. May be given with food to counter gastric irritation.
Do NOT give with milk See Doxycycline under Antibacterials for Systemic Use – Tetracyclines in Chapter 7:
Antiinfectives for Systemic Use for other information.

Indications

Prophylaxis and treatment (supplement to quinine or artesunate) of multi-drug-resistant P. falciparum malaria

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 12:11:27 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Children <8 years (deposition of tetracyclines in growing bones and teeth causes deformation and inhibit bone
growth) except for cholera or leptospirosis but not to be given for > 7 days; pregnancy (first trimester, effects on
skeletal development in animal studies; 2nd and 3rd trimesters, dental discoloration; maternal hepatotoxicity with
large doses); breastfeeding; porphyria; SLE

Mechanism of Action

A broad-spectrum, long-acting tetracycline antibiotic used for infections caused by chlamydia, spirochetes and other
pathogens, and for malarial prophylaxis.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 2 of 2