April 24, 2026, 11:16:44 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DOXYCYCLINE (THYROID PREPARATIONS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J01AA02

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antibiotics and Chemotherapeutics for Dermatological Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Thyroid Preparations

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › [Access] 100 mg capsule (as hyclate) (Rx)

Page 1 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:16:44 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

ORAL › [Access] 100 mg capsule (as hyclate) (Rx)

Acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis ABECB, mild-to-moderate, by mouth, ADULT, 100 mg twice daily.
Acute bacterial rhinosinusitis, ABRS, by mouth, ADULT, 100 mg every 12 hours for 5-7 days. Blepharitis with
associated acne rosacea, by mouth, ADULT, 100 mg twice daily for 2 weeks, then every 24 hours. Chlamydia
infections, by mouth, ADULT, 100 mg twice daily for 7 days Pneumonia due to Burkholderia pseudomallei, by mouth,
ADULT, 100 mg twice daily; CHILD, 4 mg/kg divided twice daily with Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole Juvenile
periodontitis, by mouth, CHILD ≥8 years, 200 mg daily for 7 days. Mycoplasma infections, by mouth, ADULT, 100 mg
twice a day for five to ten days Leptospirosis Clinical manifestations that should lead a health practitioner to
consider suspected leptospirosis: any individual with acute febrile illness of at least 2 days duration and residing
in a flooded area or has high-risk exposure (defined as wading in floods and contaminated water, contact with
animal fluids, swimming in flood water or ingestion of contaminated water, with or without cuts or wounds) and
with at least 2 of the following symptoms: myalgia, calf tenderness, conjunctival suffusion, chills, abdominal pain,
headache, jaundice, oliguria. For mild leptospirosis (defined as acute febrile illness and various manifestations
BUT with stable vital signs, anicteric sclera, good urine output and no evidence of meningismus or meningeal
irritation, sepsis or septic shock, difficulty of breathing, and jaundice, that is able to take oral medications) as first
line agent to be started as soon as the diagnosis is suspected regardless of the phase of the disease or duration
of symptoms, by mouth, ADULT, 100 mg twice daily for 7 days; CHILD ≥8 years, 2-4 mg/kg daily twice a day for 7 days
(maximum dose,200 mg daily). For moderate to severe leptospirosis, refer immediately to a higher level of
healthcare facility or the hospital. For pre-exposure and post-exposure prophylaxis: Preexposure prophylaxis is
not routinely recommended except for travelers, soldiers, those engaged in waterrelated recreational and
occupational activities in high endemic areas, by mouth, ADULT, 4 mg/kg single dose (maximum dose, 200 mg
regardless of age), take 100 mg twice daily if 200 mg daily is not tolerated. For post-exposure prophylaxis: Post-
exposure prophylaxis depends on type of risk and may be repeated once weekly if with continued exposure to risk
factors. - Low-Risk Exposure (defined as single history of wading in flood or contaminated water and the absence
of wounds, cuts, or open lesions of the skin), by mouth, ADULT, 200 mg within 24-72 hours from exposure. -
Moderate-Risk Exposure (defined as single history of wading in flood or contaminated water and the presence of
wounds, cuts, or open lesion in the skin, or the accidental ingestion of contaminated water), by mouth, ADULT, 200
mg once daily for 3-5 days to be started immediately within 24-72 hours from exposure. - High-Risk Exposure
(defined as continuous exposure – more than a single exposure or several days exposure – of wading in flood or
contaminated water with or without the presence of wounds, cuts, or open lesions of the skin; swimming in
flooded waters especially in areas infested with domestic / sewer rats and ingestion of contaminated water), by
mouth, ADULT, 200 mg once weekly until the end of the exposure. - For Pediatrics: by mouth, CHILD >8 years, 4
mg/kg as single dose (maximum, 200 mg); if child is exposed for more than 7 days, repeat the dose after one week.
NOTE: Antibiotic prophylaxis in the prevention of leptospirosis is NOT 100% effective. Protective measures should
still be used. The most effective preventive measure remains to be avoidance of high-risk exposure. If
unavoidable, use protective measures such as boots, goggles, overalls, or rubber gloves. WARNING: There is
currently NO recommended preexposure and post-exposute prophylaxis that is safe for pregnant or lactating
women. The Philippine Clinical Practice Guidelines on the Diagnosis, Treatment and Prevention of Leptospirosis in
Adults 2010, PSMID, Quezon City.

Administration

ORAL › [Access] 100 mg capsule (as hyclate) (Rx)

To be taken with food or after a meal. Capsules should be swallowed whole with plenty of fluid (a full glass of
water); remain sitting or standing (for at least ½ hour) to prevent esophageal irritation or damage. Do not give with
milk.

Page 2 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:16:44 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
Doxycycline can be used without dose adjustment (does NOT lead to excessive accumulation when used at the usual
recommended doses).

Hepatic Impairment:
Avoid high doses (hepatotoxicity more likely to occur in hepatic impairment).

Indications

Treatment of leptospirosis; juvenile periodontitis; gastroenteritis; acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic
bronchitis (ABECB); blepharitis with associated acne rosacea; chlamydia and mycoplasma infections; second-line
treatment of acute bacterial rhinosinusitis (ABRS) or for patients with severe penicillin allergy; pneumonia due to
Burkholderia pseudomallei

Contraindications

Pregnancy; breastfeeding; porphyria; SLE

Precautions

WARNING: Do not administer to pregnant women.

Avoid use in children less than 8 years of age.

Tetracyclines may increase muscle weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis and may exacerbate SLE;
Overgrowth of non-susceptible organisms;
Hepatic impairment;
Photosensitivity (avoid exposure to sunlight or sunlamps); tissue hyperpigmentation (skin, nail, eye, tooth, or gum
discoloration may occur);
Intracranial hypertension;
Autoimmune;
Possible interaction if co-administered with statins or laxatives;
Breastfeeding (use alternative drugs if possible);
Probable absorption and discoloration of teeth in infants may usually be prevented by chelation with calcium from
milk.

Page 3 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:16:44 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Abdominal pain, diarrhea, enamel dysplasia, epigastric burning, headache, nausea, photosensitivity,
reduced bone growth (in children <8 years), tooth discoloration, vaginitis, vomiting

Less Common: Anorexia, bone deformity, dental hypoplasia, flushing, fungal overgrowth, rash, stomatitis

Rare: Allergic reactions including SJS and anaphylaxis; benign intracranial hypertension, blood disorders, C. difficile-
associated disease, esophageal ulcers, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, nail discoloration, pancreatitis, serum sickness-like
reactions, toxic epidermal necrolysis, visual disturbances, tinnitus

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Contraceptives (oral)

Reduces therapeutic effect of Doxycycline:
Rifampicin

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces absorption of Doxycycline:
Aluminum, Magnesium or Calcium containing antacids (separate administration by at least 2 hours), Calcium salts
(separate administration by at least 2 hours), Ferric salts (separate administration by as long as possible, at least 2
hours), Magnesium salts (separate administration by at least 2 hours), Zinc salts (separate administration by at least 2
hours)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects Doxycyline:
Oral retinoids (e.g., isotretinoin, acitretin)

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Penicillin

Mechanism of Action

Tetracycline are broad-spectrum antibiotics that inhibit bacteriostatic action by reversibly binding to the 30S
subunits of the ribosome, thus preventing protein synthesis and arresting cell growth. They are active against many
gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria including Chlamydiaceae, Mycoplasma spp., Rickettsia spp., spirochetes,
and some protozoa.

Page 4 of 5



April 24, 2026, 11:16:44 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 5 of 5