April 25, 2026, 3:00:43 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DTP + INACTIVATED POLIO VACCINE (IPV)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J07CA02

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Vaccines

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Bacterial and Viral Vaccines, Combined

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › SC › 0.5 mL monodose vial (Rx)

IM › SC › 0.5 mL pre-filled syringe (Rx)

Dosage

IM / SC › 0.5 mL monodose vial (Rx)

Immunization, by IM injection, CHILD 4–6 years, 0.5 mL as a single dose.

Administration

IM / SC › 0.5 mL monodose vial (Rx)

For IM administration only into the deltoid muscle. Do NOT administer by ID, IV, or SC. Shake suspension well before
use. Do NOT use unless a homogenous, turbid, white suspension forms. Discard if the suspension is discolored, or
if there are cracks in the vial or syringe. Store at 2–8°C. Do NOT freeze. Discard if frozen. NOTE: For patients at risk
of hemorrhage following IM injection, administer by IM only if, in the opinion of the physician familiar with the
patient's bleeding risk, the vaccine can be administered by this route with reasonable safety. If the patient
receives anti-hemophilia or other similar therapy, IM vaccination can be scheduled shortly after such therapy is
administered. Patients on anticoagulant therapy should be considered to have the same bleeding risks and
treated as those with clotting factor disorders. See individual monographs for Diphtheria-Tetanus Toxoids and
Pertussis Vaccine (DTP) under Vaccines – Bacterial Vaccines and Poliomyelitis Vaccine (Type 1, 2, 3) (Inactivated)
under Vaccines – Viral Vaccines in Chapter 7: Antiinfectives for Systemic Use for other information.

Indications

Active immunization against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, and poliovirus

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 3:00:43 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to any component of the vaccine; severe acute neurological illness within 7 days of pertussis
vaccination; thrombocytopenia or any coagulation disorders

Mechanism of Action

A combination vaccine that promotes active immunity to diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, and poliovirus (types 1, 2 and
3) by inducing production of specific antibodies and antitoxins.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2