April 25, 2026, 3:00:38 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DTP + HEPATITIS B VACCINE (RECOMBINANT)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J07CA05

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Vaccines

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Bacterial and Viral Vaccines, Combined

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › SC › 0.5 mL vial (Rx)

Dosage

IM / SC › 0.5 mL vial (Rx)

Primary immunization, by IM injection, CHILD <7 years and INFANT ≥6 weeks, three 0.5 mL doses administered at 2,
4, and 6 months of age in 6–8 week intervals.

Administration

IM / SC › 0.5 mL vial (Rx)

For IM administration into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh or the deltoid muscle. Do NOT administer by IV or
SC. Shake suspension well before use. Store at 2–8°C. Discard if frozen. Do NOT use a defrosted vaccine. May be
stored at room temperature for up to 24 hours. Do NOT mix with other vaccines or injections. Use different
needles and syringes for each injection. NOTE: For patients at risk of hemorrhage following IM injection,
administer by IM only if, in the opinion of the physician familiar with the patient's bleeding risk, the vaccine can be
administered by this route with reasonable safety. If the patient receives anti-hemophilia or other similar therapy,
IM vaccination can be scheduled shortly after such therapy is administered. Patients on anticoagulant therapy
should be considered to have the same bleeding risks and treated as those with clotting factor disorders. See
individual monographs for Diphtheria-Tetanus Toxoids and Pertussis Vaccine (DTP) under Vaccines – Bacterial
Vaccines and Hepatitis B Vaccine (Recombinant DNA) under Vaccines – Viral Vaccines in Chapter 7: Antiinfectives
for Systemic Use for other information.

Indications

Active immunization against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, and hepatitis B

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 3:00:38 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliovirus vaccine, or any component of
the vaccine;
encephalopathy (within 7 days of a previous pertussis vaccine not attributable to another identifiable cause);
progressive neurologic disorders (including infantile spasms, uncontrolled epilepsy, or progressive encephalopathy)

Mechanism of Action

A combination vaccine that promotes active immunity to diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, and hepatitis B by inducing
production of specific antibodies and antitoxins.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2