April 25, 2026, 3:00:49 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DTP + IPV + Hib

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J07CA06

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Vaccines

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Bacterial Vaccines

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › SC › 0.5 mL pre-filled syringe (Rx)

Dosage

IM / SC › 0.5 mL pre-filled syringe (Rx)

Immunization, by IM injection, CHILD and INFANT 6 weeks to <5 years, four 0.5 mL doses at 2, 4, 6, and 15–18 months
of age; first dose may be administered as early as 6 weeks of age.

Administration

IM / SC › 0.5 mL pre-filled syringe (Rx)

For IM administration only into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh in children <1 year of age or into the deltoid
muscle of older children. Do NOT administer to the gluteal area or areas near a major nerve trunk. Do NOT
administer by IV or SC. Combine DTP and IPV, and gently shake suspension well before use. Withdraw liquid
contents and inject into vial containing Hib power. Gently swirl until a cloudy suspension result. Store at 2–8°C. Do
NOT freeze. Discard if frozen. Do NOT mix with other vaccines or injections. Use different needles and syringes for
each injection. NOTE: For patients at risk of hemorrhage following IM injection, administer by IM only if, in the
opinion of the physician familiar with the patient's bleeding risk, the vaccine can be administered by this route
with reasonable safety. If the patient receives anti-hemophilia or other similar therapy, IM vaccination can be
scheduled shortly after such therapy is administered. Patients on anticoagulant therapy should be considered to
have the same bleeding risks and treated as those with clotting factor disorders.

Indications

Active immunization against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, poliovirus (type 1, 2, 3), and invasive disease caused by
Haemophilus influenzae type b

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 3:00:49 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to any component of the vaccine; severe acute neurological illness within 7 days of pertussis
vaccination; thrombocytopenia or any coagulation disorders

Mechanism of Action

A combination vaccine that promotes active immunity to diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, poliovirus (types 1, 2 and 3)
and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) by inducing production of specific antibodies and antitoxins.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

REMARKS

See individual monographs for Diphtheria-Tetanus Toxoids and Pertussis Vaccine (DTP) and Hemophilus influenzae
Type B Conjugate Vaccine (Hib) under Vaccines – Bacterial Vaccines and Poliomyelitis Vaccine (Type 1, 2, 3) (Inactivated)
under Vaccines – Viral Vaccines in Chapter 7: Antiinfectives for Systemic Use for other information.

Page 2 of 2