April 24, 2026, 11:55:53 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

DYDROGESTERONE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

G03DB01

ANATOMICAL

Genito Urinary System and Sex Hormones

THERAPEUTIC

Sex Hormones and Modulators of the Genital System

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Progestins

CHEMICAL CLASS

Pregnadien Derivatives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 10 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 10 mg tablet (Rx)

Abnormal uterine bleeding, by mouth, ADULT, 10 mg twice daily for 5-7 days to stop bleeding. Then continue to 10
mg twice daily on days 11–25 of cycle for prevention. Amenorrhea, secondary, by mouth, ADULT, 10 mg twice daily on
days 11–25 of cycle. [NOTE: Prime endometrium with adequate estrogen, exogenous or endogenous, prior to
administration. A dose of 10 mg once daily for 14 consecutive days of each 28-day cycle has shown efficacy in
premenopausal women with normal estrogen levels.] Dysmenorrhea, by mouth, ADULT, 10 mg twice daily on days
5–25 of cycle. Endometriosis, by mouth, ADULT, 10 mg 2 or 3 times daily on days 5–25 of cycle, or continuously.
Infertility due to luteal insufficiency, by mouth, ADULT, 10 mg once daily on days 14–25 of cycle for ≥6 consecutive
cycles. Irregular menstrual cycle, by mouth, ADULT, 10 mg twice daily on days 11–25 of cycle. Menopause, by mouth,
ADULT, in combination with cyclic estrogen therapy, 10 mg once daily for the last 12–14 days of cycle, may increase
to 10 mg twice daily if evidence of lack of response or withdrawal bleeding occurs; in combination with continuous
estrogen therapy, 10 mg once daily for 14 consecutive days of a 28-day cycle. Pregnancy loss, recurrent, by mouth,
ADULT, 10 mg twice daily; may be taken through week 20 of pregnancy. Pregnancy loss, threatened, by mouth,
ADULT, 40 mg loading dose, followed by 10 mg every 8 hours until symptoms resolve; or 10 mg twice daily, with or
without 40 mg loading dose. Premenstrual syndrome, by mouth, ADULT, 10 mg twice daily on days 11-–25 of cycle.

Administration

ORAL › 10 mg tablet (Rx)

May split tablet to facilitate swallowing. Missed dose can be administered as soon as possible if <12 hours have
elapsed; otherwise, skip missed dose and resume with next scheduled dose. NOTE: May contain lactose. Use with
caution in patients with galactose intolerance.

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:55:53 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Abnormal uterine bleeding; secondary amenorrhea; dysmenorrhea; endometriosis; infertility; irregular menstrual
cycle; menopause; recurrent and threated pregnancy loss; premenstrual syndrome; severe hepatic impairment

Contraindications

Breast cancer or other estrogen- or progestin-dependent neoplasms (current or a history of); hepatic tumors or
disease; thrombosis or thromboembolic disorders (current or history of); undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding

Precautions

Warning: Do NOT use for prophylaxis of dementia. An increased incidence of dementia was observed in women ≥65
years of age taking conjugated estrogens alone or in combination with medroxyprogesterone acetate.

Do NOT use in the prevention of cardiovascular disease. An increased risk of deep vein thrombosis, stroke,
pulmonary emboli, and myocardial infarction was observed in conjugated estrogens with medroxyprogesterone
acetate in postmenopausal women.

An increased risk of invasive breast cancer was observed in postmenopausal women using conjugated estrogens in
combination with medroxyprogesterone acetate. An increase in abnormal mammogram findings has also been
observed with estrogen alone or in combination with progestin therapy. Treatment may also lead to severe
hypercalcemia in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases. Use is contraindicated in patients with known or
suspected breast cancer.

Breast, cervical or ovarian cancer;
Ovarian cysts;
Retinal vascular thrombosis (discontinue if there is loss of vision, proptosis, diplopia, papilledema, or retinal vascular
lesions);
Transient dizziness or drowsiness;
Cardiovascular diseases;
Depression;
Disease that may be exacerbated by fluid retention;
Thromboembolism and other vascular events, e.g., DVT, MI, PE;
Hypertension;
Changes in vaginal bleeding;
Carbohydrate intolerance and diabetes;
Gallbladder disease;
Hepatic tumor;
Hepatic impairment;
Hyperlipidemia;
Renal impairment;
Porphyria;
Does not protect against HIV infection or other sexually transmitted disease;
Laboratory tests (may alter results, e.g., coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, binding proteins);
Overweight women;
Wearers of contact lens

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:55:53 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Less Common: Headache, migraine, amenorrhea, hypermenorrhea, oligomenorrhea, nausea, breast tenderness,
dysmenorrhea, mastalgia
Rare: Abdominal pain, allergic dermatitis, angioedema, breast swelling, depressed mood, dizziness, drowsiness,
edema, exacerbation of porphyria, hemolytic anemia, hypersensitivity, jaundice, malaise, pruritus, rash, tumor
growth (meningioma), urticaria, vomiting, weakness, weight gain

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
C1 Inhibitors (thrombogenic effect),

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Antidiabetic Agents

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases serum concentration of Progestins:
Acitretin, Aprepitant, Artemether, Bile Acid Sequestrants [administer oral progestin-containing contraceptives at
least 1-4 hours prior to or 4-6 hours after Bile Acid Sequestrants], Bosentan, Carbamazepine, Clobazam, Dabrafenib,
Darunavir, Exenatide, Felbamate, Fosaprepitant, Lixisenatide [administer oral contraceptives 1 hour before or at
least 11 hours after Lixisenatide], Lumacaftor, Mycophenolate, Nelfinavir, Nevirapine, Oxcarbazepine, Prucalopride,
Rifamycin Derivatives, Saquinavir, Sugammadex, Telaprevir, Topiramate

Enhances therapeutic effect of Progestins:
Tranexamic Acid (thrombogenic effect)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Vitamin K Antagonists, e.g., Warfarin (thromboembolic disorders)

Reduces therapeutic effect of Progestins, leading to contraceptive failure:
Barbiturates, Fosphenytoin, Griseofulvin, Mifepristone, Phenytoin, , Retinoic Acid Derivatives [except Adapalene,
Topical Bexarotene, Topical Tretinoin], Ulipristal [avoid Progestins within 5 days of stopping Ulipristal]

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Anticoagulants, Vitamin K Antagonists, e.g., Warfarin (anticoagulant effect)

Mechanism of Action

A synthetic retroisomer of progesterone that lacks androgenic, estrogenic, thermogenic, corticoid, and anabolic
properties. It induces secretory changes in the endometrium.

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:55:53 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 4 of 4