April 25, 2026, 12:46:53 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ENALAPRIL + HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

C09BA02; C03AX01

ANATOMICAL

Cardiovascular System

THERAPEUTIC

Agents Acting on the Renin-Angiotensin System

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Ace Inhibitors, Combinations

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 20 mg enalapril + 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 20 mg enalapril + 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide tablet (Rx)

Hypertension, by mouth, ADULT, 10–25 mg enalapril with 12.5–50 mg hydrochlorothiazide daily as a single dose or in
2 divided doses.

Administration

ORAL › 20 mg enalapril + 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide tablet (Rx)

Take once daily in the morning. If to be taken twice daily, take the first dose in the morning and the second dose
before 6 in the evening.

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
In patients with severe impairment, use is not recommended. Loop diuretics are preferred to thiazide diuretics.

Indications

Treatment of hypertension

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 12:46:53 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs; history of angioedema; idiopathic angioedema; anuria;
diabetes; co-administration with a neprilysin inhibitor

Precautions

WARNING: Fetal Toxicity. Drugs acting directly on the renin-angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the
developing fetus. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue as soon as possible.

Hypotension (excessive hypotension and syncope has been reported; in patients with CHF with or without
associated renal insufficiency, excessive hypotension may be associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia).
Anaphylactoid and related reactions (exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported;
may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some serious; have been reported in patients undergoing low-
density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption).
Angioedema (angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis, and/or larynx has been reported;
angioedema associated with laryngeal edema may be fatal; intestinal angioedema has been reported presenting
with abdominal pain with or without nausea or vomiting).
Neutropenia or agranulocytosis (agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression has been reported; consider periodic
monitoring of WBC counts).
Hepatic impairment (associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant
hepatic necrosis, and sometimes, death; may precipitate hepatic coma)
Renal disease (may precipitate azotemia).
Ophthalmic effects (can cause idiosyncratic reactions; acute myopia and secondary angle-closure glaucoma have
been reported).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Dizziness, headache, fatigue, cough, muscle cramps, nausea, asthenia, orthostatic effects, impotence,
diarrhea
Less Common: Syncope, chest pain, abdominal pain, orthostatic hypotension, palpitation, tachycardia, vomiting,
dyspepsia, constipation, flatulence, dry mouth, insomnia, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, vertigo, pruritus,
rash, dyspnea, gout, back pain, arthralgia, diaphoresis, decreased libido, tinnitus, urinary tract infection, angioedema,
hypotension, cough

Mechanism of Action

Hydrochlorothiazide increases plasma renin activity, increases aldosterone secretion, and decreases serum
potassium.
Enalapril blocks the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis and reverses the potassium loss associated with the
diuretic.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 12:46:53 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 3 of 3