April 25, 2026, 12:49:48 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

EPIRUBICIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

L01DB03

ANATOMICAL

Antineoplastic and Immunomodulating Agents

THERAPEUTIC

Antineoplastic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Cytotoxic Antibiotics and Related Substances

CHEMICAL CLASS

Anthracyclines and Related Substances

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 10 mg powder (as hydrochloride), vial (Rx)

IV › 50 mg powder (as hydrochloride), vial (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 10 mg powder (as hydrochloride), vial (Rx)

Breast cancer, adjuvant treatment, by slow IV push, ADULT, 100–120 mg/m2 per 3– or 4–week treatment cycle as
follows: in combination with cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil (CEF-120 regimen), 60 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 every
28 days for 6 cycles; or in combination with cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil (FEC-100 regimen), 100 mg/m2 on
day 1 every 21 days for 6 cycles.

Administration

IV › 10 mg powder (as hydrochloride), vial (Rx)

For IV administration, infuse over 15–20 minutes or slow IV push. If lower doses due to dose reduction are
administered, reduce infusion time proportionally. Do NOT infuse over <3 minutes. Infuse into a free-flowing IV
solution (NS or D5W). Avoid the use of veins over joints or inextremities with compromised venous or lymphatic
drainage. Do NOT administer by IM or SC route. NOTE: Avoid extravasation. Ensure proper needle or catheter
position prior to and during administration. If extravasation occurs, discontinue infusion immediately and apply ice
to the affected area. Injection into a small vein or repeated administration in the same vein may result in venous
sclerosis. Associated with a high emetic potential. Antiemetics are recommended to prevent nausea and
vomiting.

Page 1 of 5



April 25, 2026, 12:49:48 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Plasma clearance in elderly female patients was reduced by 35%. Monitor toxicity and adjusting subsequent dosage
in elderly patients with great care, particularly females >70 years of age.

Renal Impairment:
In severe renal impairment (serum creatinine >5 mg/dL), lower doses.

Hepatic Impairment:
Reduce doses in with impaired hepatic function.
In bilirubin 1.2–3 mg/dL or AST 2–4 times the upper limit of normal, administer 50% of recommended starting dose.
In bilirubin >3 mg/dL or AST >4 times the upper limit of normal, administer 25% of recommended starting dose.
In severe impairment, use is not recommended.

Obesity:
Use actual body weight (full weight) for calculation of BSAbased or weight-based dosing, especially if the intent of
therapy is curative.
If dose reduction is done due to toxicity, consider resumption of full weight-based dosing with subsequent cycles,
especially if cause of toxicity is resolved.

Toxicity:
In heavily-treated patients and patients with preexisting bone marrow depression or neoplastic bone marrow
infiltration, consider lower starting doses of 75–90 mg/m2. Delay day 1 dose of subsequent cycles until platelets are
=100,000/mm3, ANC =1500/mm3, and nonhematologic toxicities have recovered to =grade 1.
Reduce day 1 dose in subsequent cycles to 75% of previous day 1 dose if patient experiences nadir platelet counts
<50,000/mm3, ANC <250/mm3, neutropenic fever, or grade 3/4 nonhematologic toxicity during the previous cycle.
For CEF-120 regimen, reduce day 8 dose to 75% of day 1 dose if platelet counts are 75,000 to 100,000/mm3 and ANC is
1000 to1499/mm3; omit day 8 dose if platelets are <75,000/mm3, ANC <1000/mm3, or grade 3/4 nonhematologic
toxicity.

Indications

Adjuvant therapy component for primary breast cancer in patients with evidence of axillary node involvement
following tumor resection

Page 2 of 5



April 25, 2026, 12:49:48 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to epirubicin, other anthracyclines, anthracenediones, or any component of the formulation;
cardiomyopathy and/or heart failure; recent myocardial infarction, severe arrhythmias; previous treatment with
anthracyclines

Precautions

WARNING: Should be administered under the supervision of an experienced cancer chemotherapy physician.
Administer in a facility sufficient to appropriately diagnose and manage complications.

Severe myelosuppression may occur.

Secondary acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has been reported.

Cardiac toxicity, including fatal CHF, may occur either during therapy or months to years after termination of therapy.
In the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer, the maximum cumulative dose is 720 mg/m2. The risk of developing CHF
increases rapidly with increasing total cumulative doses >900 mg/m2. Children may be at increased risk for
developing acute and delayed cardiotoxicity.

Patients receiving 120 mg/m2 per cycle as part of combination therapy (CEF-120 regimen) should also receive
prophylactic antibiotic therapy with sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim or a fluoroquinolone. Lower starting doses may
be necessary for heavily pretreated patients, patients with preexisting myelosuppression, or with bone marrow
involvement. Maximum lifetime dose is 900 mg/m2.

Prophylactic antibiotics should be administered with the CDF-120 regimen.

May have radiosensitizing activity. Radiation recall (inflammatory) has been reported. Use with caution in radiation
recipients.

Patients should recover from acute toxicities (stomatitis, myelosuppression, infections) prior to initiating treatment.
Assess baseline labs (blood counts, bilirubin, ALT, AST, serum creatinine) and cardiac function (LVEF).

WARNING: Hazardous agent; use appropriate precautions for handling and disposal.

Bone marrow suppression (e.g. leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia; myelosuppression may result in severe
neutropenia and severe infection, needing supportive care)

Thromboembolic events (e.g. thrombophlebitis, thromboembolic phenomena, including pulmonary embolism).

Hepatic impairment (evaluate hepatic function at baseline and during treatment; predominantly hepatically
eliminated; impaired function may lead to increased exposure and toxicity); renal impairment (evaluate renal
function at baseline and during treatment).

Myocardial toxicity (e.g. tachyarrhythmias, sinus tachycardia, premature ventricular contractions, ventricular
tachycardia, bradycardia, ECG changes; cardiotoxicity is dose-limiting; risk increases with cumulative dose, but
irreversible cardiotoxicity may occur at any level; regularly monitor LVEF and discontinue at first sign of impairment).

Secondary malignancy (latency period for secondary leukemias may be as short as 1–3 years);

Page 3 of 5



April 25, 2026, 12:49:48 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Tumor lysis syndrome (monitor serum uric acid, potassium, calcium, phosphate, and serum creatinine after initial
administration; hydration and anti-hyperuricemic prophylaxis may minimize potential TLS complications).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Alopecia, amenorrhea, anemia, anorexia, conjunctivitis, diarrhea, fever, HF, hot flashes, infection, injection
site reactions, leukopenia, lethargy, mucositis, nausea, decreased LVEF, vomiting, neutropenia, neutropenic fever,
rash, skin changes, thrombocytopenia

Less Common: Abdominal pain, acute lymphoid leukemia, acute myelogenous leukemia, AV block, anaphylaxis,
arterial embolism, ascites, arrhythmia, bradycardia, bundle-branch block, cardiomyopathy, chills, dehydration,
dyspnea, ECG abnormalities, erythema, esophagitis, flushing, GI burning sensation, GI erosions or ulcerations, GI
pain, GI bleeding, hepatomegaly, hyperpigmentation (oral mucosa, nails, skin), hypersensitivity, hyperuricemia,
myelodysplastic syndrome, myocarditis, neutropenic typhlitis, phlebitis, pneumonia, premature menopause,
premature ventricular contractions, pulmonary edema, pulmonary embolism, photosensitivity, radiation recall,
sepsis, shock, sinus tachycardia, stomatitis, ST wave changes, tachyarrhythmias, thromboembolism,
thrombophlebitis, toxic megacolon, urticaria, urine discoloration (red), ventricular tachycardia

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Epirubicin: Bevacizumab (cardiotoxic effect), Cyclophosphamide
cardiotoxic effect), Denosumab (serious infections)
Reduces diagnostic effect of Coccidioides immitis Skin Test

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Epirubicin: Roflumilast (immunosuppressive effect)
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Tofacitinib (immunosuppressive effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Epirubicin: Dipyrone (agranulocytosis; pancytopenia), Pimecrolimus,
Tacrolimus (Topical), Taxane Derivatives (e.g. Paclitaxel, Docetaxel), Trastuzumab (cardiotoxic effects)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Clozapine (agranulocytosis), Leflunomide
(hematologic toxicity such as pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, and/or thrombocytopenia), Natalizumab (concurrent
infection)
Increases serum concentration of Epirubicin:
Cimetidine
Reduces therapeutic effect of Epirubicin: Echinacea
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: BCG (Intravesical), Vaccines (immune response; live virus
vaccines may progress to infection)

Mechanism of Action

Inhibits DNA and RNA synthesis by intercalating between DNA base pairs and disrupting topoisomerase II repair. It
also inhibits DNA helicase.

Page 4 of 5



April 25, 2026, 12:49:48 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 5 of 5