April 25, 2026, 12:15:20 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

EPOETIN ALFA (RECOMBINANT HUMAN ERYTHROPOIETIN)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B03XA01

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Antianemic Preparations

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Antianemic Preparations

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › SC › 2,000 IU/0.5 mL, pre-filled syringe (Rx)

IV › SC › 4,000 IU/0.4 mL, pre-filled syringe (Rx)

IV › SC › 4,000 IU/mL, 1 mL vial (Rx)

IV › SC › 10,000 IU/mL, pre-filled syringe (Rx)

IV › SC › 4000 IU/mL Solution for injection in 1 mL Pre-filled syringe (Rx)

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 12:15:20 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

IV / SC › 2,000 IU/0.5 mL, pre-filled syringe (Rx)

NOTE: Initiate treatment when hemoglobin is <10 g/dL. Reduce dose or interrupt treatment if hemoglobin
approaches or exceeds 11 g/dL. INTRAVENOUS AND SUBCUTANEOUS Anemia associated with CKD patients on
dialysis: by IV or SC injection, ADULT, initially 50–100 units/kg 3 times a week; CHILD 1 month–16 years, initially 50
units/kg 3 times a week; if hemoglobin does not increase by >1 g/dL after 4 weeks, increase dose by 25%; if
hemoglobin increases >1 g/dL in any 2-week period, reduce dose by ≥25%. Anemia associated with CKD patients
not on dialysis: by IV or SC injection, ADULT, initially 50–100 units/kg 3 times a week (use only if rate of hemoglobin
decline would likely result in RBC transfusion and desire is to reduce risk of alloimmunization and/or other RBC
transfusion-related risks); reduce dose or interrupt treatment if hemoglobin exceeds 10 g/dL; if hemoglobin does
not increase by >1 g/dL after 4 weeks, increase dose by 25%; if hemoglobin increases >1 g/dL in any 2-week period,
reduce dose by ≥25%. Anemia due to chemotherapy in cancer patients (only if anticipated duration of
myelosuppressive chemotherapy is at least 2 additional months): by SC injection, ADULT, initially 150 units/kg 3
times a week or 40,000 units once weekly until completion of chemotherapy; titrate dose to use the minimum
effective dose that will maintain a hemoglobin level sufficient to avoid RBC transfusions; discontinue
erythropoietin following completion of chemotherapy; ADOLESCENT and CHILD ≥5 years, initially 600 units/kg
once weekly until completion of chemotherapy; titrate dosage to use the minimum effective dose that will
maintain hemoglobin level sufficient to avoid RBC transfusions; discontinue erythropoietin following completion
of chemotherapy. Anemia due to Zidovudine in HIV-¬infected patients (serum erythropoietin levels ≤500
milliunits/mL and zidovudine doses ≤4200 mg/week): by IV or SC injection, ADULT, initially 100 units/kg 3 times a
week; if hemoglobin does not increase after 8 weeks, increase dose by 50–100 units/kg at 4– to 8-week intervals
until hemoglobin reaches a level sufficient to avoid RBC transfusion (maximum dose, 300 units/kg); withhold dose
if hemoglobin exceeds 12 g/dL, may resume treatment with a 25% dose reduction once hemoglobin <11 g/dL;
discontinue if hemoglobin increase is not achieved with 300 units/kg for 8 weeks; titrate dose to use the minimum
effective dose that will maintain a hemoglobin level sufficient to avoid RBC transfusions; hemoglobin levels
should not exceed 12 g/dL); CHILD 8 months to 17 years, 50–400 units/kg 2–3 times a week; titrate dosage to use
the minimum effective dose that will maintain a hemoglobin level sufficient to avoid RBC transfusions;
hemoglobin levels should not exceed 12 g/dL). Surgery patients (perioperative hemoglobin should be >10 g/dL and
≤13 g/dL): by SC injection, ADULT, initially 300 units/kg daily for 15 days (10 days before surgery, the day of surgery,
and 4 days after surgery); or 600 units/kg once weekly for 4 doses (21¬, 14¬, and 7 days before surgery, and on the
day of surgery).

Administration

IV / SC › 2,000 IU/0.5 mL, pre-filled syringe (Rx)

For IV or SC administration. Do NOT shake. For patients with CKD on hemodialysis, IV route is preferred. May be
administered into the venous line at the end of the dialysis procedure. For other patient populations, SC route is
preferred. Usually administered undiluted, although may use a 1:1 dilution with bacteriostatic NS (contains benzyl
alcohol).

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 12:15:20 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
For CKD patients, use the minimum effective dose that will maintain a hemoglobin level sufficient to avoid RBC
transfusions and evaluate patient for other causes of anemia.
Dose reduction is recommended. Do NOT increase dose more frequently than every 4 weeks. Dose decreases may
occur more frequently. Avoid frequent dosage adjustments. Discontinue therapy if responsiveness does not
improve.
Adjustments in dialysis parameters may be needed.

Oncology:
Use lowest dose needed to avoid RBC transfusions. Use ESAs only for treatment of anemia from concomitant
myelosuppressive chemotherapy.

Indications

Treatment of anemia due to concurrent myelosuppressive chemotherapy, chronic kidney disease (CKD), or
associated with HIV (zidovudine) therapy; reduction of allogeneic RBC transfusion for elective, noncardiac,
nonvascular surgery.

NOTE: NOT indicated for use in cancer patients receiving hormonal therapy, therapeutic biologic products, or
radiation therapy unless also receiving concurrent myelosuppressive chemotherapy.

Contraindications

Serious allergic reactions to epoetin alfa or any component of the formulation; uncontrolled hypertension; pure red
cell aplasia (PRCA) that begins after treatment with epoetin alfa or other epoetin protein drugs; neonates, infants,
pregnant women, and nursing women (multi-dose vials).

Precautions

WARNING: Erythropoiesis-¬stimulating Agents (ESAs) increase the risk of death, myocardial infarction (MI), stroke,
venous thromboembolism, thrombosis of vascular access.

Cardiovascular events; hypertension (use with caution); Perisurgery patients; Pure red cell aplasia or PRCA
(discontinue treatment in patients with PRCA secondary to neutralizing antibodies to erythropoietin; do not switch
to another ESA in patients who develop antibody-mediated anemia); Severe anemia or acute blood loss;
Hypersensitivity; Chronic kidney disease; Seizures; Elderly (decreased endogenous erythropoietin in elderly with
normocytic or iron deficiency anemias or those with a serum hemoglobin concentration <12 g/dL); Pregnancy (does
not cross human placenta; polyhydramnios and intrauterine growth retardation have been reported; hypospadias
and pectus excavatum have been reported with first trimester exposure; menstruation may resume following
treatment with recombinant erythropoietin in amenorrheic premenopausal women; if needed, only use single dose
preparations); Lactation (use with caution).

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 12:15:20 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Hypertension, fever, headache, pruritus, rash, nausea, vomiting, injection site reactions, arthralgia, cough,
deep vein thrombosis, edema, thrombosis, chills, depression, dizziness, insomnia, dysphagia, urticaria,
hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, stomatitis, weight loss, leukopenia, clotted vascular access, muscle spasm, myalgia,
pulmonary embolism, bone pain, respiratory congestion, upper respiratory infection.
Less Common: Anaphylactic reaction, angioedema, bronchospasm, erythema, hypersensitivity reactions,
hypertensive encephalopathy, MI, microvascular thrombosis, neutralizing antibodies, porphyria, pure red cell aplasia
(PRCA), renal vein thrombosis, retinal artery thrombosis, seizure, stroke, tachycardia, temporal vein thrombosis,
thrombophlebitis, transient ischemic attack, tumor progression.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Decreases bleeding time:
Desmopressin

Increases sensitivity of erythroid progenitors:
Androgens e.g. testosterone

Mechanism of Action

A glycosylated protein hormone and a hematopoietic growth factor that regulates erythropoiesis by stimulating the
differentiation and proliferation of erythroid precursors, the release of reticulocytes into the circulation, and the
synthesis of cellular hemoglobin. It has the same pharmacological actions as endogenous erythropoietin.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 4 of 4