April 25, 2026, 12:17:04 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ERYTHROMYCIN (ANTIINFECTIVES (OPHTHALMOLOGICALS))

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01AA17

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antiinfectives (Ophthalmologicals)

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › [Access] 0.5% eye ointment, 3.5 g tube (Rx)

OPHTHALM › [Access] 0.5% eye ointment, 5 g tube (Rx)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › [Access] 0.5% eye ointment, 3.5 g tube (Rx)

Conjunctivitis, into the eye, ADULT, apply a half-inch (1.25 cm) on the affected eye(s) every 3–4 hours, 2–6 times a
day depending on the severity of the infection. Prophylaxis of ophthalmia neonatorum, into the eye, NEWBORN
INFANT, apply 1 cm ribbon into each lower conjunctival sac immediately after birth, then gently massage the closed
eyelids to spread the ointment. NOTE: Prophylaxis should not be delayed by more than 1 hour after delivery since
delayed application may reduce efficacy. Ideally, a new tube or a single-use container of ointment should be used
for each neonate.

Administration

OPHTHALM › [Access] 0.5% eye ointment, 3.5 g tube (Rx)

Digoxin (digoxin toxicity), Vitamin K Antagonists e.g., Warfarin (bleeding) Apply ointment directly to the infected
eye through the pocket made by the lower lid and the eye. It is advisable to apply the ointment at night. Avoid
contaminating the applicator tip with the material from the eyes, fingers, or other sources.

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 12:17:04 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Treatment of superficial ocular infections involving the conjunctiva or cornea caused by organisms susceptible to
erythromycin; prophylaxis of ophthalmia neonatorum from both N. gonorrhoeae and C. trachomatis.

Contraindications

Minor ocular irritation

Precautions

Superinfection; Pregnancy and breastfeeding.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Minor ocular reactions, redness

Rare:
Hypersensitivity reactions

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:

Digoxin (digoxin toxicity), Vitamin K Antagonists e.g., Warfarin (bleeding)

Mechanism of Action

A macrolide antibiotic used for superficial ocular infections caused by susceptible organisms. It inhibits protein
synthesis by irreversibly binding to the 50s ribosomal subunit resulting in inhibition of cell growth.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 2 of 2