April 25, 2026, 12:20:58 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Escitalopram

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N06AB10

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psychoanaleptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antidepressants

CHEMICAL CLASS

Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 10 mg (as Oxalate) Tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 10 mg (as Oxalate) Tablet (Rx)

Generalized anxiety disorder, by mouth, ADULT, initially 10 mg once daily. May increase to 20 mg once daily if
necessary. Continue treatment for up to 12 months after initial response. Major depressive disorder, by mouth,
ADULT/CHILD> 12 years, initially 10 mg once daily. May increase to 20 mg once daily after at least 1 week (ADULT) or
at least 3 weeks (CHILD>12 years) if necessary. Continue treatment for at least 6 months to 1 year. NOTE: For all
indications, allow a sufficient duration of therapy for around 4-8 weeks on the maximum tolerable dose before
switching the antidepressant.

Administration

ORAL › 10 mg (as Oxalate) Tablet (Rx)

May be taken with or without food

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 12:20:58 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric: 10 mg once daily; use with caution as per the Beers Criteria due to association of SSRIs with falls and
fractures in service users/patients 65 years and older and should be avoided such service users/patients who have a
history of falls or fractures, as well as having the potential to cause or exacerbate syndrome of inappropriate
antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) or hyponatremia monitor sodium concentration closely when initiating or
adjusting the dose in older adults.

Renal Impairment: Use with caution

Hepatic Impairment: Initially 5 mg once daily. Increase to 10 mg once daily after 2 weeks

Indications

Management of major depressive disorder, generalized anxiety disorder.

Contraindications

Known QTc prolongation, congenital long QTc syndrome.

Precautions

WARNING: Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents,
and young adults with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Balance the risk with the
clinical need. Appropriately monitor patients of all ages who are started on antidepressant therapy and closely
observe for clinical worsening, suicidality, or unusual changes in behavior. Advise families and caregivers of the need
for close observation and communication with the health care provider. Escitalopram is not approved for use in
pediatric service users/patients younger than 12 years.

Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT): Use with caution; no clinical studies have assessed the combined use of
escitalopram and electroconvulsive therapy; may increase the risks (e.g., cognitive adverse effects) associated with
electroconvulsive therapy; consider discontinuing, when possible, prior to ECT treatment.
Use with caution in patients with history of seizures.
Use with caution in patients with bipolar disorder unless treated with concomitant mood stabilizing agent.
Monitor patients for activation of suicidal ideation, especially children and adolescents.
Do not use use if patients is taking a MAO inhibitor

STORAGE AND STABILITY: Store at 25°C. Excursions permitted to 15-30°C. Protect from light.

See General Precautions under Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors in Chapter 10: Nervous System for other
precautions.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 12:20:58 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Abnormal dreams, fatigue, paresthesia, pyrexia, restlessness, sinusitis, yawning.
Less Common: Alopecia, bruxism, confusion, epistaxis, menstrual disturbances, mydriasis, edema, pruritus,
syncope, tachycardia, taste disturbance, tinnitus.
Rare: Aggression, bradycardia, depersonalization.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan (serotonin syndrome)
NSAIDs (bleeding)
Oral anticoagulants (altered anticoagulant effects)
Drug-induced hypokalemia/hypomagnesaemia (malignant arrhythmias)
Concomitant administration or w/in 14 days of MAOIs withdrawal (serotonin syndrome; fatal)
QTc prolonging agents e.g., pimozide (additive effect; fatal; monitor)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Linezolid (may cause serotonin syndrome)
MAOIs (may cause serotonin syndrome)
Methylene blue (may cause serotonin syndrome)
Pimozide (may precipitate torsades de pointes)

Mechanism of Action

Escitalopram is a furancarbonitrile and S-stereoisomer of citalopram. It induces allosteric serotonin transporter
(SERT) inhibition which results in a significant increase of serotonin.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3