April 25, 2026, 12:58:13 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

FACTOR VIII CONCENTRATE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B02BD02

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Antihemorrhagics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Vitamin K and Other Hemostatics

CHEMICAL CLASS

Blood Coagulation Factors

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 100 IU/g lyophilized powder, vial + diluent (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 100 IU/g lyophilized powder, vial + diluent (Rx)

NOTE: Individualize dose, dosing frequency, and duration based on location and severity of bleeding, target factor
VIII levels, and clinical condition of the patient. Plasma levels of factor VIII should not exceed 200% of normal or
200 units/dL. INTRAVENOUS Acquired hemophilia A, mild to moderate hemorrhage: by IV injection, ADULT, initially
200 units/kg to achieve factor VIII plasma level 50–100% of normal; titrate subsequent doses to maintain
recommended factor VIII trough levels and individual clinical response; dose every 4–12 hours; adjust frequency
based on clinical response or factor VIII levels. Acquired hemophilia A, major hemorrhage: by IV injection, ADULT,
initially 200 units/kg to achieve factor VIII plasma level 100–200% of normal for acute bleed or 50–100% of normal
after acute bleed is controlled, if required of normal; titrate subsequent doses to maintain recommended factor
VIII trough levels and individual clinical response; dose every 4–12 hours; adjust frequency based on clinical
response or factor VIII levels.

Administration

IV › 100 IU/g lyophilized powder, vial + diluent (Rx)

Administer via IV route at a rate of 1–2 mL/minute. Prior to reconstitution, warm vial and diluent to room
temperature. Gently swirl vial in a circular motion after adding diluent until dissolved. Do NOT administer in the
same tubing or container with other medicinal products.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 12:58:13 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Treatment of bleeding episodes in adults with acquired hemophilia A.

NOTE: Not indicated for the treatment of congenital hemophilia A or von Willebrand disease.

Contraindications

Life-¬threatening hypersensitivity reactions to antihemophilic factor or any component of the formulation (including
traces of hamster proteins).

Precautions

Antibody formation (suspect an anti-porcine factor VIII antibody if the plasma factor VIII level does not increase as
expected or if bleeding is not controlled after administration); Hypersensitivity reactions (discontinue immediately if
allergic or anaphylactic¬-type reactions occur); Lactation (use with caution).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Antibody development
Less Common: Hypersensitivity reaction

Mechanism of Action

A plasma protein fraction that contains the glycoprotein coagulation factor VIII together with varying amounts of von
Willebrand factor. Factor VIII is required for clot formation and maintenance of hemostasis. It acts by activating factor
X, a coagulation factor necessary in thrombin and eventual fibrin formation.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2