April 25, 2026, 12:59:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

FENOFIBRATE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

C10AB05

ANATOMICAL

Cardiovascular System

THERAPEUTIC

Lipid Modifying Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Fibrates

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 160 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 200 mg capsule (Rx)

ORAL › 200 mg Tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 160 mg tablet (Rx)

NOTE: At least 2-3 months of therapy is required to determine efficacy. Hyperlipidemias, by mouth, ADULT, 200–
300 mg once daily in divided doses; usual range, 200–400 mg daily; CHILD >10 years old, up to maximum of 5 mg/kg
daily.

Administration

ORAL › 160 mg tablet (Rx)

Best taken with food as food increases the bioavailability of fenofibrate.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 12:59:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Use with caution. May need dose adjustment.

Renal Impairment:
For mild-to-moderate impairment, dose reduction is warranted. Initiate dose at 40–50 mg once daily in adults. Refer
child to pediatrician.
For severe impairment, fenofibrate is contraindicated.

Indications

Hypertriglyceridemia; dyslipidemia associated with type 2 diabetes; second-line treatment in hypercholesterolemia

Contraindications

Photosensitivity to ketoprofen; pancreatitis, unless due to hypertriglyceridemia; severe renal impairment, including
patients receiving dialysis; hepatic impairment; primary biliary cirrhosis; gallstones; gall bladder disease;
unexplained, persistent liver function abnormality; pregnancy; lactation

Precautions

NOTE: Fenofibrate has a uricosuric effect, which may reduce uric acid concentrations by about 25%.

Hyperlipidemia; myopathy, myositis, and rhabdomyolysis (have been reported; concomitant HMG-CoA reductase
inhibitor may potentiate rhabdomyolysis and lead to acute renal failure).
Increase in hepatic transaminases (monitor regularly and discontinue if enzyme levels persist 3 times above the
upper limit of normal); increase in serum creatinine (may occur; monitor renal function).
Avoid exposure of skin to sun, wear protective clothing and use sunscreen
Lack of optimal response (withdraw therapy if an adequate response is not obtained after 2–3 months of therapy at
the maximal daily dose).
Women and obese individuals (at high risk for biliary tract disease; modest increase in the risk of cholesterol
gallstones, reflecting an increase in the cholesterol content of bile; may cause cholelithiasis)
Patients at risk for venous thromboembolism (associated with pulmonary embolism and deep venous thrombosis).
Elderly (higher incident of renal impairment)
Pregnancy (embryotoxicity in animal studies); lactation.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 12:59:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Arthralgia, bronchitis, cough, dizziness, fatigue, headache, insomnia, GI disturbances (e.g., dyspepsia,
abdominal pain); hypertension, nausea, rhinitis, infections (e.g., urinary tract, respiratory tract)
Less Common: Pancreatitis, photosensitivity, pulmonary embolism, VTE
Rare: Agranulocytosis, anemia, arrhythmias, hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, gallstones, hypersensitivity reactions
(e.g., angioedema, anaphylaxis, exfoliative dermatitis), hypokalemia, leukopenia, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis,
thrombocytopenia

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Insulins, Sulfonylureas e.g. Gliclazide (hypoglycemic effect)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Statins e.g. Atorvastatin (myopathy; rhabdomyolysis)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Anticoagulants, e.g., Warfarin (anticoagulant effect)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Anticoagulants, e.g., Warfarin (bleeding)

Reduces absorption of Fenofibrate:
Bile Acid Sequestrants

Mechanism of Action

A peroxisome proliferator receptor alpha (PPARα) activator, which modulates lipoprotein synthesis and catabolism. It
reduces plasma triglyceride, moderately increases high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and has a variable effect on LDL
concentrations.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3