April 25, 2026, 12:59:24 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

FERROUS SALT (OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

Not available

ANATOMICAL

Alimentary Tract and Metabolism

THERAPEUTIC

Mineral Supplements

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Mineral Products

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › tablet (equivalent to 60 mg elemental iron) (OTC)

ORAL › solution (equivalent to 15 mg elemental iron/0.6 mL) drops, 15 mL (OTC)

ORAL › solution (equivalent to 15 mg elemental iron/0.6 mL) drops, 30 mL (OTC)

ORAL › solution (equivalent to 30 mg elemental iron/5 mL) syrup, 60 mL (OTC)

Dosage

ORAL › tablet (equivalent to 60 mg elemental iron) (OTC)

NOTE: The elemental iron content of a ferrous salt depends on the type of preparation as follows: Ferrous
fumarate 33% Ferrous gluconate 12% Ferrous lactate 19% Ferrous sulfate, hydrated 20% Ferrous sulfate,
desiccated 32% Iron-deficiency anemia, by mouth, ADULT, elemental iron, 100–200 mg daily in divided doses.
Prevention of iron-deficiency anemia (in those at risk), by mouth, ADULT (woman), elemental iron 60 mg daily;
CHILD >5 years, elemental iron 30 mg daily; CHILD <5 years, elemental iron 2 mg/kg daily (maximum, 30 mg). NOTE:
For women and children >5 years, folic acid may also be given.

Administration

ORAL › tablet (equivalent to 60 mg elemental iron) (OTC)

Best absorbed on an empty stomach but may be taken after food to reduce GI adverse effects. Dilute with water
liquid preparations containing iron salts, and if possible swallow through a drinking straw to prevent teeth
discoloration.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 12:59:24 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

N/A

Indications

Treatment of iron-deficiency anemia and supplement and prophylaxis in people on hemodialysis receiving
erythropoietin.

Contraindications

Anemia not due to iron deficiency; parenteral iron therapy; in patients receiving repeated blood transfusions;
hemochromatosis; hemosiderosis

Precautions

WARNING: May exacerbate GI bleeding. Use with caution in patients with GI disorders.

Not to be administered for longer than 6 months (monitor closely for potential complications);
Transfusion-dependent anemia;
Peptic ulcer;
Regional enteritis;
Ulcerative colitis;
Intestinal strictures;
Diverticula;
Pregnancy (avoid use in the first trimester; administer only in women with low-normal hemoglobin).

NOTE: In cases of overdose, initiate therapy with deferoxamine. Before administration of deferoxamine, the stomach
should be emptied by gastric lavage (with a wide-bore tube), preferable within one hour of ingesting a significant
quantity of iron or if radiography reveals tablets in the stomach.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Abdominal pain, black discoloration of feces, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
Less Common: Black discoloration of teeth
Rare: Anaphylaxis, GI erosion and perforation, hemosiderosis

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 12:59:24 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Decreases bioavailability of Methyldopa (interferes with blood pressure control)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases absorption of Iron: Antacids, e.g., Aluminum or Magnesium Hydroxide, Calcium, Doxycycline, Food, e.g.,
eggs, milk, Tetracyclines, Zinc Salts
Decreases absorption of the following drugs: Bisphosphonates e.g., Alendronate, Doxycycline, Levothyroxine
[administer at least 2 hours apart], Quinolones, e.g., Ciprofloxacin, Tetracyclines, Zinc Salts
Decreases therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Bisphosphonates e.g., Alendronate, Quinolones, e.g.,
Ciprofloxacin, Tetracyclines (anti-infective activity)

Mechanism of Action

An essential trace element required for the formation of hemoglobin and for the efficient oxygen transport in the
blood.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3