April 25, 2026, 1:00:07 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

FLUCYTOSINE (5-FLUOROCYTOSINE)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J02AX01

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antifungals for Systemic Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Triazole Derivatves

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 250 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 250 mg tablet (Rx)

Endocarditis, by mouth, CHILD, 100 mg/kg/day in 3 or 4 divided doses (with amphotericin B) for >4-6 weeks after
valve replacement.

Administration

ORAL › 250 mg tablet (Rx)

Take orally; Administer around¬-the-¬clock to promote less variation in peak and trough serum levels.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Refer to adult dosing.

Indications

Adjunctive treatment of systemic fungal infections (e.g., septicemia, endocarditis, urinary tract infection, meningitis,
or pulmonary) caused by susceptible strains of Candida or Cryptococcus.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 1:00:07 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to micafungin, other echincandins, or any component of the formulation.

Precautions

WARNING: Use with extreme caution in patients with renal impairment.

Close monitoring of hematologic, renal and hepatic status of all patients is essential. Use with caution in patients
with: Bone Marrow Depression;
Hematologic Disease; Patients who have been treated with radiation or drugs that suppress the bone marrow;
Hepatic Impairment; Renal Dysfunction.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Myocardial toxicity, chest pain, dyspnea, rash, pruritus, urticaria, nausea, jaundice, renal failure, azotemia,
crystalluria, anemia, leukopenia, ataxia, confusion.

Drug Interactions

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Amphotericin B, Ganciclovir, Norfloxacin, Valganciclovir, Zidovudine

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Flucytosine:
Clozapine, Dipyrone, Hydroxyurea, Fluconazole, Itraconazole

Reduces therapeutic effect of Flucytosine:
BCG Vaccine

Mechanism of Action

Azoles are synthetic compounds that can be classified as either imidazoles or triazoles according to the number of
nitrogen atoms. Azoles exhibit activity by reducing the ergosterol synthesis through inhibition of fungal cytochrome
P450 enzymes.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2