April 25, 2026, 1:08:40 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

FLUORESCEIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01JA01

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Diagnostic Agents

CHEMICAL CLASS

Colouring agents

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 10% (100 mg/mL) (as sodium salt), 5 mL ampule (Rx)

OPHTHALM › 1 mg strips (as sodium salt) (Rx)

OPHTHALM › 9 mg strips (as sodium salt) (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 10% (100 mg/mL) (as sodium salt), 5 mL ampule (Rx)

Angiography of the retinal and iris vasculature, by antecubital vein, ADULT, 500 mg over 5–10 seconds; CHILD, 7.5
mg/kg. Aid in the fitting of hard contact lenses, detection of corneal lesions and foreign bodies, and diagnostic
ophthalmic procedures, into the eye, ADULT, instill into the desired eye(s), may be given in combination with a local
anesthetic as 0.25% solution with oxybuprocaine HCl or proxymetacaine HCl.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:08:40 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IV › 10% (100 mg/mL) (as sodium salt), 5 mL ampule (Rx)

For IV administration, inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do NOT mix
or dilute with other solutions or drugs. Attach a syringe into a transparent tubing and a 23-gauge butterfly needle
for injection. Insert the needle and draw the patient’s blood to the hub of the syringe so that a small air bubble
separates the patient’s blood in the tubing from the fluorescein. With the room lights on, slowly inject the blood
back into the vein while watching the skin over the needle tip. If the needle has extravasated, blood will be seen to
bulge the skin over the needle tip. If this occurs, stop before any fluorescein is injected. When assured that
extravasation has not occurred, the room light may be turned off and the fluorescein injected rapidly (1
mL/second) into the antecubital vein. Luminescence usually appears in the retina and choroidal vessels in 7–14
seconds and can be observed by standard viewing equipment. Flush IV cannulas before and after drugs are
injected to avoid physical incompatibility reactions. For sterile ophthalmic strips, hold the package in the middle
and tear down toward the sterile strip. Turn the package over and tear down from the other side, taking care not to
tear the sterile strip. Grasp each end of the package firmly and pull apart. Do NOT touch the sterile strip. Moisten
the strip with 1–2 drops of sterile irrigating or saline solution prior to application to ensure full fluorescence and
patient comfort. Touch the conjunctiva or fornix as required with the moistened tip. Instruct patient to blink
several times after application. Contents may not be sterile if individual strips have been damaged or previously
opened.

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Indications

Angiography of the retina and iris vasculature; aid in the fitting of hard contact lenses; detection of corneal lesions
and foreign bodies; diagnostic ophthalmic procedures; applanation tonometry.

Precautions

WARNING: An emergency tray should be available prior to the injection of fluorescein.

Respiratory reaction;
Severe local tissue damage (e.g., severe pain in the arm,
sloughing of the skin, superficial phlebitis, subcutaneous
granuloma, and toxic neuritis along the median curve in
the antecubital area);
GI effects (e.g., nausea, vomiting, and GI distress commonly
occur within the first few minutes following injection);
Pregnancy (use only if clearly needed);
Lactation (excreted in breast milk for up to 4 days; following
fluorescein angiography, discontinue breastfeeding for
at least 4 days and the milk should be pumped off and
discarded during this period).

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:08:40 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Nausea, vomiting, GI distress, strong taste, extravasation, hypersensitivity reactions, transient coloration of skin and
urine, staining of the skin or clothing, staining of soft contact lenses, headache, thrombophlebitis.

Rare:
Cardiac arrest, basilar artery ischemia, severe shock,
convulsions, syncope.

Drug Interactions

No information found

Mechanism of Action

A precursor of eosins that temporarily stains any cell it enters, marking damaged areas.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3