April 24, 2026, 11:17:03 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

FLUOXETINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N06AB03

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psychoanaleptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antidepressants

CHEMICAL CLASS

Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 20 mg dispersible tablet/capsule (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 20 mg dispersible tablet/capsule (Rx)

Bulimia nervosa, by mouth, ADULT, initially 60 mg once daily in the morning. Some patients may need to begin at
lower dose and titrate over several days. Depression associated with bipolar 1 disorder, by mouth, ADULT, initially
20 mg once daily in the evening or with the fixed-dose combination, 25 mg once daily in the evening. Slowly titrate
dose based on efficacy and tolerability up to a maximum of 50 mg once daily in the evening, CHILD≥10 years, initially
20 mg once daily in the evening or with the fixed-dose combination, 25 mg once daily in the evening. Slowly titrate
dose based on efficacy and tolerability. Safety of fluoxetine doses >50 mg in combination with doses >12 mg of
olanzapine has not been studied in pediatrics. Major depressive disorder, by mouth, ADULT, initially 20 mg once
daily in the morning. Allow a few weeks to assess effects before titrating dose slowly up to a maximum of 80 mg
once daily in the morning. Continue treatment for up to 4 to 9 months, CHILD≥8 years, initially 10 mg once daily in
the morning. Allow at least 1 week to assess effects before titrating dose slowly up to a maximum of 20 mg once
daily in the morning. Continue treatment for at least 4 to 9 months. Obsessive compulsive disorder, by mouth,
ADULT, initially 20 mg once daily in the morning. Allow a few weeks to assess effects before titrating dose slowly
up to a maximum of 80 mg once daily in the morning. Continue treatment for at least 1 to 2 years after initial
response. Panic disorder with or without agoraphobia, by mouth, ADULT, initially 10 mg once daily in the morning.
Increase to 20 mg once daily in the morning after 1 week. Allow a few weeks to assess effects before titrating dose
slowly up to a maximum of 60 mg once daily in the morning. Continue treatment for at least 12 months after initial
response. Premenstrual dysphoric disorder, by mouth, ADULT, initially 20 mg once daily in the morning through the
menstrual cycle or limited to the luteal phase. Treatment-resistant depression, in combination with olanzapine, by
mouth, ADULT, initially 20 mg once daily in the evening or with the fixed-dose combination, 25 mg once daily in the
evening. Slowly titrate dose based on efficacy and tolerability up to a maximum of 50 mg once daily in the evening.
NOTE: For all indications, allow a sufficient duration of therapy for around 4-8 weeks on the maximum tolerable
dose before switching the antidepressant.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:17:03 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

ORAL › 20 mg dispersible tablet/capsule (Rx)

May be taken with or without food.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Decrease initial dose and increase dose intervals; some service users/patients may require an initial dose of 10
mg/day with dosage increases of 10 mg and 20 mg every several weeks as tolerated; should not be taken at night
unless service user/patient experiences sedation.

NOTE: Use with caution in patients >65 years, patients with history of falls or fractures and patients with a potential
to cause SIADH or hyponatremia.

Renal Impairment:
No dosage adjustment necessary. Accumulation of fluoxetine or norfluoxetine is possible due to chronic
administration in patients with severely impaired renal
function.

Hepatic Impairment:
Decrease initial dose and increase dose intervals; for service users/patients with cirrhosis, administer a lower dose
or less frequent dosing interval; for service users/patients with compensated cirrhosis without ascites, administer
50% of normal dose.

Indications

Management of major depressive disorder, depression associated with bipolar 1 disorder in combination with
olanzapine, treatment-resistant depression in combination with olanzapine, obsessive compulsive disorder,
premenstrual dysphoric disorder, bulimia nervosa, panic disorder with or without agoraphobia.

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to fluoxetine

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:17:03 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: delayed ejaculation, erectile dysfunction; men and women: anorgasmia, urinary frequency, urination
disorder decreased/increased appetite, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, flatulence, dry mouth, dyspepsia,
dysgeusia, insomnia, sedation, drowsiness, sleep disorder, agitation, personality disorder, abnormality in thinking,
tremors, chills, emotional lability, headache, dizziness, headaches, anxiety, nervousness, yawning, fatigue, anorexia,
abnormal dreams, amnesia, confusion, QTc prolongation, palpitations, vasodilation, chest pain, hypertension,
sweating, skin rash, pruritis, hypermenorrhea, increased thirst, weight loss, weight gain, decreased sexual desire,
bruising, pharyngitis,hyperkinesia, asthenia, weakness , visual disturbance, otalgia, tinnitus, flu-like symptoms,
sinusitis, epistaxis.

Rare: bleeding, hyponatremia and SIADH, seizures, induction of mania, suicidality, falls, fractures and osteoporosis
(long-term use), abnormal hepatic function tests, acne vulgaris, acute abdominal condition, akathisia, albuminuria,
alopecia, amenorrhea, anaphylactoid reaction, anemia, angina pectoris, angle-closure glaucoma, aphthous
stomatitis, aplastic anemia, arthritis, asthma, ataxia, atrial fibrillation, bruise, bruxism, bursitis, cardiac arrhythmia,
cataract, cerebrovascular accident, cholelithiasis, cholestatic jaundice, colitis, congestive heart failure, dehydration,
delusions, depersonalization, dyskinesia, dysphagia, dysuria, ecchymoses, edema, eosinophilic pneumonitis,
equilibrium disturbance, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, esophagitis, euphoria, exfoliative dermatitis,
extrapyramidal reaction, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal ulcer, glossitis, gout, gynecological
gynecomastia, hallucination, hemolytic anemia, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hiccups, hostility,
hypersensitivity reaction, hypertonia, hyperventilation, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hypotension, hypothyroidism,
immune thrombocytopenia, laryngeal edema, laryngospasm, leg cramps, lupus-like syndrome, malaise, melena,
memory impairment, migraine, mydriasis, myocardial infarction, myoclonus, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, optic
neuritis, orthostatic hypotension, ostealgia, pancreatitis, pancytopenia, paranoia, petechia, priapism, pulmonary
embolism, pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary hypertension, purpuric rash, renal failure, serotonin syndrome, sexual
disorder (may persist after discontinuation), skin photosensitivity, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, syncope,
tachycardia, thrombocytopenia, toxic epidermal necrolysis, vasculitis, ventricular tachycardia (including torsades de
pointes), violent behavior

Mechanism of Action

Fluoxetine is a propylamine with a long half-life that, in addition to blocking SERT, also has antagonistic properties at
the 5-HT2C receptor and weak norepinephrine reuptake blockade. It blocks SERT and possesses antagonistic
properties at the 5-HT2C leading to disinhibition of dopamine and norepinephrine release resulting to precognitive
effects.

Page 3 of 3