April 25, 2026, 1:00:30 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

FLUTICASONE (CORTICOSTEROIDS AND ANTIINFECTIVES IN
COMBINATION)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

Not available

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ear, Nose, and Throat Preparations

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Corticosteroids and Antiinfectives In Combination

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

TOPIC › 0.05% nasal aqueous solution (as propionate) per dose x 120 doses (OTC)

Dosage

TOPIC › 0.05% nasal aqueous solution (as propionate) per dose x 120 doses (OTC)

Symptomatic relief, by nasal administration, ADULT and CHILD ≥12 years, Week 1: 2 sprays in each nostril once daily;
Week 2–6 months: use 1–2 sprays in each nostril once daily, as needed to treat symptoms; CHILD 4–11 years, 1 spray
in each nostril once daily.

Administration

TOPIC › 0.05% nasal aqueous solution (as propionate) per dose x 120 doses (OTC)

For nasal use only. Do NOT spray into the eyes or mouth. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical
help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:00:30 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

For the temporary relief of symptoms of upper respiratory allergies, including nasal congestion, runny nose,
sneezing, and itchy nose.

NOTE: NOT for the treatment of asthma

Contraindications

Injury or surgery to the nose that is not fully healed.

Precautions

WARNING: Do NOT use in children under 4 years of age.

Glaucoma;
Cataracts;
Growth effects;
Local site application reactions (e.g., stinging or sneezing
may occur a few seconds right after use);
Pregnancy and lactation (use with caution; consult a health
professional before use).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Stinging, sneezing.

Rare:
Severe facial pain, thick nasal discharge, whistling sound from the nose, visual changes, frequent nosebleeds.

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases serum concentration of Fluticasone: CYP3A4 Inhibitors, e.g. Ritonavir, Ketoconazole

Mechanism of Action

A glucocorticoid with a fluorocarbothioate ester linkage at the 17-carbon position. It has potent vasoconstrictive and
anti-inflammatory activities, but weak hypothalamic pituitary-adrenal (HPA) inhibitory effect when applied topically.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:00:30 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3