April 25, 2026, 12:58:33 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

FONDAPARINUX

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B01AX05

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Antithrombotic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Antithrombotic Agents

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › IV › SC › 2.5 mg/0.5 mL solution (as sodium salt) (Rx)

Dosage

IM / IV / SC › 2.5 mg/0.5 mL solution (as sodium salt) (Rx)

NOTE: PT and aPTT are insensitive measures of Fondaparinux activity. If unexpected changes in coagulation
parameters or major bleeding occur, discontinue fondaparinux. SUBCUTANEOUS UA or NSTEMI: by SC injection,
ADULT, 2.5 mg once daily for the duration of hospitalization or up to 8 days, initiate as soon as possible after
presentation. INTRAVENOUS STEMI: by IV injection, ADULT, 2.5 mg once; for subsequent doses, starting the
following day, by SC injection, 2.5 mg once daily for the duration of the hospitalization up to 8 days, or until
revascularization [NOTE: Discontinue Fondaparinux 24 hours prior to CABG surgery and administer UFH instead,
as per institutional practice].

Administration

IM / IV / SC › 2.5 mg/0.5 mL solution (as sodium salt) (Rx)

Initiate therapy 6–8 hours following surgery. When used for DVT prophylaxis, early initiation (before 6 hours after
orthopedic surgery) has been associated with increased bleeding. For STEMI, administer via IV route. Administer
initial dose as IV push or mix in NS and infuse over 1–2 minutes. Flush tubing with NS after infusion to ensure
complete administration. If to be administered via SC route, alternate injection sites. Administer according to
recommended regimen. Do NOT expel air bubble from syringe before injection. Do NOT administer with other
agents that increase the risk of hemorrhage unless they are essential for the management of the underlying
condition. Do NOT administer via IM route. CONVERSION. To convert from IV UFH infusion to SC Fondparinux,
calculate specific dose for Fondaparinux based on indication. Discontinue UFH and begin Fondaparinux within 1
hour. To convert from SC Fondaparinux to IV UFH infusion, discontinue Fondaparinux, calculate specific dose for IV
UFH infusion based on indication. Omit Heparin loading dose. For SC Fondaparinux dosed every 24 hours, start IV
UFH infusion 22–23 hours after last Fondaparinux dose.

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 12:58:33 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
For CrCl >50 mL/minute, no dose adjustment is necessary, however, total clearance is reduced ~25%.
For CrCl of 30–50 mL/minute, use with caution. Total clearance ~40% lower compared to normal renal function. When
used for thromboprophylaxis, reduce dose 50% or use low-dose heparin.
For CrCl <30 mL/minute, use is contraindicated.

Hepatic Impairment:
For severe impairment, use with caution. Monitor closely for signs of bleeding.

Indications

Management of unstable angina (UA) or non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI); management of ST
segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).

Contraindications

Severe renal impairment; body weight <50 kg; active major bleeding; bacterial endocarditis; Thrombocytopenia
associated with a positive in vitro test for antiplatelet antibodies in the presence of Fondaparinux.

Precautions

WARNING: Epidural or spinal hematomas may occur in patients who are anticoagulated with low molecular weight
heparins, heparinoids, or fondaparinux and are receiving neuraxial anesthesia or undergoing spinal puncture. This
may result in longterm or permanent paralysis. Monitor patients frequently for signs and symptoms of neurologic
impairment. If neurologic compromise is noted, urgent treatment is necessary.

Hemorrhage may occur at any site. Risk appears increased by several factors including renal dysfunction, age (>75
years), and weight (<50 kg).

Bleeding; thrombocytopenia; Hepatic impairment; Renal impairment; Patients <50 kg (use with caution; dose
reduction recommended); Elderly (use with caution ; increased risk of bleeding in patients >75 years of age);
Lactation (use with caution).

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 12:58:33 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Anemia, hypotension, insomnia, dizziness, confusion, increased wound secretion, skin blister,
hypokalemia, thrombocytopenia, purpura, hematoma, minor or major hemorrhage, postoperative hemorrhage,
increased serum ALT and AST, postoperative wound infection, epistaxis.
Less Common: Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema, catheter site thrombosis, elevated aPTT
associated with bleeding, epidural hematoma, hemorrhagic death, injection site reaction (bleeding, skin rash,
pruritus), intracranial hemorrhage, reoperation due to bleeding, spinal hematoma, thrombocytopenia, severe
thrombocytopenia (<50,000/mm3).

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances anticoagulant effect of Fondaparinux:
Agents with Antiplatelet Properties, e.g., P2Y12 Inhibitors, NSAIDs, SSRIs; Omega-3 Fatty Acids; Other
Anticoagulants; Salicylates e.g. Aspirin; Sugammadex; Thrombolytic Agents; Tibolone; Vitamin E (increases overall
risk for bleeding)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Fondaparinux:
Ibrutinib; Prostacyclin Analogues

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Deferasirox (GI ulceration or irritation; GI bleeding;); Deoxycholic Acid (bleeding or bruising in the treatment area)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Bleeding: Nintedanib; Obinutuzumab; Iodine I131

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances anticoagulant effect of the following drugs:
Apixaban; Dabigatran Etexilate; Rivaroxaban

Increases risk of bleeding of Fondaparinux:
Herbs with anticoagulant or antiplatelet properties, e.g., Alfalfa, Anise, Bilberry;

Reduces anticoagulant effect of Fondaparinux:
Estrogen Derivatives, Progestins [except Tibolone]

Mechanism of Action

A synthetic activated factor X (Xa) inhibitor used as an anticoagulant. It increases the affinity of antithrombin III for
factor Xa, a key enzyme in the coagulation cascade.

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 12:58:33 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 4 of 4