April 25, 2026, 12:58:40 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

FUROSEMIDE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

C03CA01

ANATOMICAL

Cardiovascular System

THERAPEUTIC

Diuretics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

High-Ceiling Diuretics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 20 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 40 mg tablet (Rx)

IM › IV › 10 mg/mL, 2 mL ampule (Rx)

IV › 10 mg/mL, 25 mL ampule (Rx)

Page 1 of 5



April 25, 2026, 12:58:40 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

ORAL › 20 mg tablet (Rx)

Edema, by mouth, ADULT, 40 mg daily in divided doses, may be increased gradually to 120 mg in resistant edema;
CHILD, 1–3 mg/kg daily (maximum, 40 mg daily); INFANT, 1–6 mg/kg daily given in divided doses every 6–12 hours;
NEONATES or PREMATURE INFANTS, 1–4 mg/kg per dose once or twice daily due to poor bioavailability; by IV
injection, NEONATES or PREMATURE INFANTS, 1–2 mg/kg per dose every 12–24 hours; by continuous IV infusion,
NEONATES or PREMATURE INFANTS, 0.05 mg/kg per hour (maximum, 0.4 mg/kg per hour). Heart failure, by mouth,
ADULT, initially 20–40 mg; may repeat the same dose or increase dose in increments of 20–40 mg per dose at
intervals of 6–8 hours (maximum total daily dose, 600 mg); usual maintenance dose interval is once or twice daily;
adjust dosing frequency based on patient-specific needs; CHILD and INFANT, initially 2 mg/kg per dose, increased
in increments of 1–2 mg/kg per dose at intervals of 6–8 hours until a satisfactory response is achieved (maximum
dose, 6 mg/kg per dose); by IM or IV injection, ADULT, initially 20–40 mg per dose, may repeat the same dose or
increase dose in increments of 20 mg per dose and administer 1–2 hours after previous dose (maximum dose, 200
mg per dose); given once or twice daily; CHILD and INFANT, initially 1 mg/kg per dose, may increase dose in
increments of 1 mg/kg per dose and administer not sooner than 2 hours after previous dose, until a satisfactory
response is achieved; may administer maintenance dose at intervals of every 6–12 hours (maximum dose, 6 mg/kg
per dose); by continuous IV infusion, ADULT, initially administer an IV bolus dose 40–100 mg over 1 to 2 minutes,
followed by continuous IV infusion rate of 10–40 mg/hour; repeat loading dose before increasing infusion rate.
Acute pulmonary edema, by slow IV injection, ADULT, 40 mg initially, dose may be doubled every hour until a ceiling
dose of 160 mg; CHILD 1 mg/kg daily (maximum, 6mg/kg daily); by slow IV drip or infusion, ADULT, 40 mg/hour.
Oliguria with glomerular filtration rate <20 mL/minute, by slow IV infusion at a rate not exceeding 4 mg/minute,
ADULT, initially 250 mg over 1 hour; if urine output is not satisfactory during the hour after the first dose, infuse
500 mg over 2 hours then, if there is no satisfactory response during the hour after the second dose, infuse 1 g
over 4 hours; if there still is no response after the third dose, dialysis is probably necessary; may repeat effective
dose, up to 1 g, every 24 hours.

Administration

ORAL › 20 mg tablet (Rx)

For oral administration, take tablet once daily, in the morning. If to be taken twice daily, take the first dose in the
morning and the second dose at lunchtime. Advise the patient to get up gradually from sitting or lying to minimize
dizziness upon standing when taking the medicine. The patient should sit or lie down if dizziness occurs For IV
administration, administer no faster than 4 mg/minute to avoid ototoxicity. Dilute dose in a suitable amount of
infusion fluid, according to the hydration of the patient.

Page 2 of 5



April 25, 2026, 12:58:40 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Reduce dose.

Renal Impairment:
In acute renal failure, higher doses may be required to initiate desired response. Avoid use in oliguric states.
Not removed by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. Supplemental dose is not necessary.
In CrCl <25 mL/minute, use upper end of the initial infusion dosage range. If urine output is <1 mL/kg per hour, double
as necessary to a maximum of 80–160 mg/hour.
Monitor effects, particularly with high doses.

NOTE: Dose equivalency for patients with normal renal function (approximate): Furosemide 40 mg = Bumetanide 1 mg
= Torsemide 20 mg = Ethacrynic Acid 50 mg

Indications

Management of edema; pulmonary edema; cerebral edema; hepatic cirrhosis; nephrotic syndrome; oliguria due to
renal failure; congestive heart failure

Contraindications

Severe fluid and sodium depletion

Precautions

WARNING: Cases of tinnitus, hearing impairment, and deafness have been reported. Ototoxicity is related to rapid
injection, severe renal impairment, use of higher than recommended doses, hyponatremia, or concomitant therapy
with aminoglycoside antibiotics or other ototoxic drugs. If high doses are necessary, parenteral therapy with
controlled IV infusion is advisable.

Prostatic enlargement and/or obstruction (may precipitate acute urinary retention).
Gout (may be aggravated by diuretic-induced hyperuricemia).
Hypotension.
Diabetes (may see changes in glucose control); SLE (may cause SLE exacerbation or activation).
Oliguria (correct hypovolemia before administration).
Renal impairment (monitor electrolytes particularly potassium and sodium, as well as creatinine).
Hepatic impairment (hypokalemia may precipitate coma); cirrhosis (diminished natriuretic effect with increased
sensitivity to hypokalemia and volume depletion); alcoholic cirrhosis (increased risk of hypomagnesemia).
Severe urinary retention.
Patients at high risk for radiocontrast nephropathy (can lead to higher incidence of deterioration in renal function).
Elderly (more susceptible to electrolyte imbalance and orthostatic hypotension).
Pregnancy (avoid use; may cause electrolyte disturbance in fetus; possible neonatal thrombocytopenia; monitor fetal
growth because of potential for higher fetal birth weights); lactation (enters breastmilk; use with caution).

Page 3 of 5



April 25, 2026, 12:58:40 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Dehydration, dizziness, gout, hyperuricemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, orthostatic
hypotension, syncope
Less Common: Dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, hypocalcemia, increased creatinine concentration, rash
Rare: Acute pancreatitis, agranulocytosis, bone marrow depression, bullous eruptions, exfoliative dermatitis,
hemolytic anemia, interstitial nephritis, jaundice, photosensitivity, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, thrombocytopenia,
tinnitus, vertigo

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Furosemide:
Alcohol (antihypertensive effect), Thiazide Diuretics [e.g., Hydrochlorothiazide (profound diuresis; serious
electrolyte disturbance)]

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Furosemide:
Salbutamol (hypokalemia)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
ACE Inhibitors [e.g., Enalapril (severe hypotension with the first ACEi dose; ACEi-induced renal impairment)], ARBs
(excessive hypotension with the first ARB dose due to volume depletion), Drugs causing hypotension [e.g.,
Amlodipine, Diazepam, Hydrochlorothiazide, Methyldopa (hypotension)], Digoxin (cardiac toxicity due to hypokalemia),
NSAIDs including COX-2 Inhibitors (nephrotoxicity), Ototoxic Drugs [e.g., Gentamicin, Streptomycin (ototoxicity)]

Reduces therapeutic effect of Furosemide:
Selective and non-selective NSAIDs

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Furosemide:
Hydrocortisone (hypokalemia)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Ibuprofen (nephrotoxicity)

Reduces therapeutic effect of Furosemide:
Hydrocortisone (antagonism of diuretic effect), Ibuprofen (antagonism of diuretic effect), Oral Contraceptives
(Estrogen antagonizes diuretic effect)

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Lidocaine (antagonized by hypokalemia), Metformin (antagonism of hypoglycemic effect)

Mechanism of Action

A potent, high-ceiling, sulfonamide loop diuretic, which produces dose dependent diuresis of relatively short
duration

Page 4 of 5



April 25, 2026, 12:58:40 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 5 of 5