April 25, 2026, 1:13:15 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

GAS FORMING AGENT

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

Not available

ANATOMICAL

Various

THERAPEUTIC

Contrast Media

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Magnetic Resonance Imaging Contrast Media

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › Components per tablet: Sodium bicarbonate 470 mg Glutamic acid 70 mg Tartaric acid 420 mg Silicon
resin 25 mg (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › Components per tablet: Sodium bicarbonate 470 mg Glutamic acid 70 mg Tartaric acid 420 mg Silicon resin 25 mg
(Rx)

Condition, route, ADULT/CHILD, Dose.

Administration

ORAL › Components per tablet: Sodium bicarbonate 470 mg Glutamic acid 70 mg Tartaric acid 420 mg Silicon resin 25 mg
(Rx)

Do NOT administer using the same IV line as other IV medications. Prior to initiating, determine blood pressure and
weight to evaluate patient's volume status and signs and symptoms of pulmonary congestion or respiratory
distress. NOTE: Obtain a basic metabolic panel of serum chemistries on the morning of the procedure and on
post-procedure days 1 and 2 or until any increase of serum creatinine resolves. Obtain urinary pH measurement
after initial bolus. Make sure urine flow is at 150 mL/hour after procedure to ensure adequate hydration.

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment: If CrCl <15 mL/minute, refer patient to a specialist.

Indications

Radiocontrast media

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 1:13:15 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Volume overload.

Precautions

Electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hypokalemia);
Volume overload, CHF, hypertension, and oliguric renal
failure (use with caution due to high sodium content).

Adverse Drug Reactions

None known

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Gas Forming
Agent, specifically nephrotoxicity [withhold drug the day
before and the day of the procedure]:
Acyclovir, Amphotericin B, Aminoglycosides,
Cyclosporine, Foscarnet, Loop Diuretics e.g. Furosemide,
NSAIDs

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following
drugs:
Metformin (lactic acidosis) [withhold drug prior to and for
48 hours after injection of gas forming agent]

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

Not available

Page 2 of 2