April 25, 2026, 1:15:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

GENTAMICIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J01GB03

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antibacterials for Systemic Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Aminoglycoside Antibacterials

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › IV › [Access] 40 mg/mL (as sulfate), 2 mL ampule/vial (Rx)

IM › IV › [Access] 10 mg/mL (as sulfate), 2 mL ampule/vial (Rx)

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 1:15:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

IM / IV › [Access] 40 mg/mL (as sulfate), 2 mL ampule/vial (Rx)

Potential sepsis, by IV infusion, NEONATE ≤7 days old ≤2 kg, 5 mg/kg every 48 hours; NEONATE 8-28 days old ≤2 kg,
5 mg/kg every 36 hours; NEONATE ≤7 days old >2 kg, 4 mg/kg every 24 hours; NEONATE 8-28 days old >2 kg, 4-5
mg/kg every 24 hours; with ampicillin. Neonatal sepsis, by IV infusion, NEONATE ≤7 days old ≤2 kg, 5 mg/kg every
48 hours; NEONATE 8-28 days old ≤2 kg, 5 mg/kg every 36 hours; NEONATE ≤7 days old >2 kg, 4 mg/kg every 24
hours; NEONATE 8-28 days old >2 kg, 4-5 mg/kg every 24 hours; with cefotaxime/ceftriaxone with or without
oxacillin/vancomycin. Immunocompetent children, intra-abdominal source, by IV infusion, CHILD, 6-7.5 mg/kg in
divided doses every 8 hours or 5-7.5 mg/kg daily with ampicillin and metronidazole OR clindamycin for 10-14 days or
longer. Immunocompetent children, urinary source, by IV infusion, CHILD, 6-7.5 mg/kg in divided doses every 8
hours or 5-7.5 mg/kg daily with ceftriaxone OR cefotaxime for 10-14 days or longer. Native valve infective
endocarditis, community-acquired, by IM injection or IV infusion, CHILD, 3-6 mg/kg in divided doses every 8 hours
with ampicillin-sulbactam; ADULT, 1 mg/kg every 8 hours with ampicillin-sulbactam; Healthcare-associated, by IM
injection or IV infusion, CHILD, 3-6 mg/kg every 8 hours with vancomycin; ADULT, 1 mg/kg every 8 hours with
vancomycin and cefepime/ceftazidime; S. viridans or S. bovis (S. gallolyticus) with penicillin G MIC ≤0.12 mcg/mL, by
IV infusion, ADULT, 3 mg/kg with penicillin G OR ceftriaxone for 2 weeks; S. viridans or S. bovis (S. gallolyticus) with
penicillin G MIC >0.12 to ≤0.5mcg/mL, by IV infusion, CHILD, 3-6 mg/kg in divided doses every 8 hours with ampicillin
OR ceftriaxone for 2 weeks; ADULT, 3 mg/kg with penicillin G for 2 weeks; Enterococci, penicillin-resistant
aminoglycoside- sensitive, by IV infusion, CHILD, 3-6 mg/kg in divided doses every 8 hours with vancomycin for 6
weeks; ADULT, 1 mg/kg every 8 hours with vancomycin for 6 weeks. Prosthetic valve infective endocarditis, by IV
infusion, CHILD, 3-6 mg/kg in divided doses every 8 hours with vancomycin; ADULT, 1 mg/kg every 8 hours with
vancomycin and rifampin for 6 weeks; MSSA, by IM injection or IV infusion, CHILD, 3-6 mg/kg in 3 divided doses with
oxacillin and rifampin for 2 weeks; ADULT, 1 mg/kg every 8 hours with oxacillin and rifampin for 2 weeks; Gram-
negative enteric bacilli, by IV infusion, CHILD, 3-6 mg/kg in divided doses every 8 hours with
ceftazidime/cefotaxime/ceftriaxone. Bacterial purulent pericarditis, S. aureus, Group A Streptococcus,
Enterobacteriaceae, S. pneumoniae, by IV infusion, ADULT, 5 mg/kg with vancomycin and ceftriaxone/levofloxacin.
Community acute bacterial meningitis, by IM injection or IV infusion, INFANT, 5 mg/kg with ampicillin OR cefotaxime
dependent on the etiology of bacterial meningitis. Brain abscess in the presence of endocarditis, native valve, by
IM injection or IV infusion, ADULT and CHILD, 3-6 mg/kg with ceftriaxone. Brain abscess in the presence of
endocarditis, prosthetic valve, by IM injection or IV infusion, ADULT and CHILD, 3-6 mg/kg with vancomycin. Chronic
or recurrent mastoiditis, by IV infusion, CHILD, 7.5 mg/kg in divided doses every 8 hours with piperacillin-
tazobactam. Community-acquired pneumonia, severe, by IV infusion, NEONATE, 5 mg/kg with ampicillin OR
penicillin G; High-risk, risk for P. aeruginosa, by IV infusion, ADULT, 5-7 mg/kg with azithromycin and piperacillin-
tazobactam/cefepime/meropenem. Hospital-acquired pneumonia, P. aeruginosa, A. baumanii, K. pneumoniae;
Klebsiella spp., E. coli, Enterobacter spp.; Proteus spp.; Serratia marcesens, by IV infusion, CHILD, 5 mg/kg with
ceftazidime; Pathogen—specific treatment, P. aeruginosa, by IV infusion, CHILD, 5-7 mg/kg with ceftazidime;
ADULT, 5-7mg/kg with levofloxacin OR ciprofloxacin; Acinetobacter species, by IV infusion, CHILD, 5 mg/kg with
meropenem; Burkholderia cepacia, by IV infusion, CHILD, 5-7 mg/kg with meropenem; Escherichia coli, by IV
infusion, CHILD, 5 mg/kg with ceftriaxone; Enterobacter, by IV infusion, CHILD, 5-7 mg/kg with meropenem or
cefepime

Administration

IM / IV › [Access] 40 mg/mL (as sulfate), 2 mL ampule/vial (Rx)

Infuse gentamicin over 30-60 minutes; doses <120 mg may be given as IV injection over 3-5 minutes. Final
concentration of IV infusion should not exceed 10 mg/mL.

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 1:15:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Neonates and Infants:
Adjust dosage; avoid prolonged use.

Geriatric:
For mild-to-moderate renal impairment, dose reduction or dose interval extension is warranted;
for severe impairment, the patient should be referred to a specialist.

Renal Impairment:
For mild-to-moderate renal impairment, dose reduction is warranted;
for severe impairment, the patient should be referred to a specialist.

Indications

Used in combination with beta lactams for the treatment of potential sepsis, sepsis neonatorum, immunocompetent
children due to specific sources, native valve infective endocarditis, prosthetic valve infective endocarditis,
bacterial purulent pericarditis, community acute bacterial meningitis, brain abscess in the presence of endocarditis,
chronic or recurrent mastoiditis, community-acquired pneumonia, hospital acquired pneumonia, and pathogen-
specific infections.

Contraindications

Perforated ear drum; hepatic impairment; myasthenia gravis.

Precautions

WARNING: Neurotoxicity, manifested as both bilateral auditory and vestibular ototoxicity, can occur in patients with
pre-existing renal damage and in patients with normal renal function treated at higher doses and/or for periods
longer than those recommended.

Aminoglycosides are potentially nephrotoxic. Risk is greater in patients with impaired renal function and in those
who receive high doses or prolonged therapy.
Use with caution premature infants and neonates because of renal immaturity and the resulting prolongation of
serum half-life of the drug. Decrease dose.
Neuromuscular blockade and respiratory paralysis have been reported following parenteral injection of
aminoglycosides. Use with caution when giving in patients with neuromuscular diseases e.g. myasthenia gravis.

Obesity (use ideal body weight to calculate dose and monitor serum gentamicin concentration closely);
Pregnancy (second and third trimesters: auditory or vestibular nerve damage; reserve for severe or life threatening
infections for which safer drugs are inappropriate; if administered, monitor serum gentamicin concentration),
Breastfeeding (amount probably too small to be harmful; monitor infant for thrush and diarrhea).

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 1:15:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Edema, gait instability, ototoxicity (auditory and vestibular damage), nephrotoxicity, reddening of the skin,
skin itching.

Less Common: Rash.

Rare: Anaphylaxis, antibiotic-associated colitis, blood disorders, bronchospasm, CNS effects, electrolyte
disturbances, nausea, neuromuscular blockade, oliguria, peripheral neuropathy, photosensitivity, stomatitis,
vomiting.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Gentamicin: Ototoxic and nephrotoxic drugs e.g. Streptomycin

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Gentamicin: Diuretics e.g. Furosemide

Mechanism of Action

Aminoglycosides are used most widely in combination with a β-lactam antibiotic in serious infections with
gramnegative bacteria, in combination with vancomycin or a β-lactam antibiotic for gram-positive endocarditis, and
for treatment of tuberculosis. They are rapid bactericidal irreversible inhibitors of protein synthesis by binding on
the 30S ribosome.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

REMARKS

WHO anti-biotic category: ACCESS

Page 4 of 4