April 25, 2026, 1:14:55 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

GLUCOSE (DEXTROSE) (ANTI-HYPOGLYCEMICS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

Not available

ANATOMICAL

Alimentary Tract and Metabolism

THERAPEUTIC

Other Alimentary Tract and Metabolism Products

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Anti-Hypoglycemics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

PAREN › 50%, 10 mL ampule (Rx)

PAREN › 50%, 20 mL ampule (Rx)

PAREN › 50%, 50 mL vial (Rx)

IV › 50%, 10 mL (85 Kcal) vial (Rx)

IV › 50%, 20 mL (85 Kcal) vial (Rx)

IV › 50%, 50 mL (85 Kcal) vial (Rx)

Dosage

PAREN › 50%, 10 mL ampule (Rx)

Fluid replacement, by IV infusion, ADULT and CHILD, determined based on clinical data and, whenever possible,
electrolyte monitoring. Treatment of hypoglycemia, by IV infusion (50% glucose solution into a large vein), ADULT,
25-50 mL.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:14:55 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

PAREN › 50%, 10 mL ampule (Rx)

Should be administered by IV infusion via a large central vein (e.g., into a secure IV cannula in an antecubital vein)
to minimize damage at the site of injection (e.g., thrombophlebitis). Do not administer glucose solutions through
the same infusion equipment as whole blood since hemolysis and clumping may occur. Visually inspect parenteral
products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. NOTE: Rapid administration of
hypertonic glucose solutions may produce substantial hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome.

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
Select doses with care.

Indications

Fluid replacement without significant electrolyte deficit; management of severe hypoglycemia in an adult who is
unable to take oral food or fluids.

Contraindications

Hyperglycemia; use of hyperosmotic solutions in patients with anuria; diabetic coma; glucosegalactose
malabsorption syndrome; dehydrated patients with delirium; intracranial or intraspinal hemorrhage; should not be
used after ischemic attacks.

Precautions

May result in hypophosphatemia, hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia;
Observe for signs of mental confusion and loss of consciousness;
Prolonged use (may affect insulin production);
Diabetes mellitus.

Adverse Drug Reactions

NOTE: Administration of glucose without adequate thiamine levels may precipitate overt deficiency states e.g.,
Wernicke's encephalopathy.

Less Common: Pain at the injection site, phlebitis, tissue necrosis, venous irritation, venous thrombosis.
Rare: Dehydration, edema or water intoxication, fluid and electrolyte imbalance, glycosuria, hyperglycemia,
hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:14:55 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Associated with lower fasting glucose and insulin: Magnesium salts

Mechanism of Action

A sterile, hypertonic solution of glucose, which provides a source of calories in a minimal volume of water and is used
in restoring blood glucose concentrations in the treatment of hypoglycemia.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3