April 25, 2026, 1:17:57 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

HALOPERIDOL

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N05AD01

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psycholeptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antipsychotics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 2 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 10 mg tablet (Rx)

IM › 5 mg/mL, 1 mL ampule (Rx)

IM › 50 mg/mL (as decanoate), 1 mL (oil) ampule (Rx)

Page 1 of 5



April 25, 2026, 1:17:57 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

ORAL › 2 mg tablet (Rx)

Behavior disorders, by mouth, CHILD 3–12 years and 15– 40 kg, initially 0.5 mg daily in 2–3 divided doses, slowly
increase by 0.5 mg once daily every 5–7 days to an average maintenance dose of 0.05–0.075 mg/kg daily in 2–3
divided doses; no benefit is seen with doses greater than 6 mg once daily. Manifestations of psychotic disorders,
by mouth, ADULT, initially 1–6 mg daily in 2–3 divided doses for moderate cases or 6–15 mg daily in 2 to 3 divided
doses for severe cases, slowly titrate dose based on efficacy and tolerability up to a maximum of 100 mg once
daily; usual maintenance is 3–10 mg daily; CHILD 3–12 years and 15–40 kg, initially 0.5 mg daily in 2–3 divided doses,
slowly increase by 0.5 mg once daily every 5–7 days to an average maintenance dose of 0.05–0.15 mg/kg daily in 2–3
divided doses; no benefit is seen with doses >6 mg once daily; by IM injection (immediate-release), ADULT, initially
2–5 mg every hour, may administer subsequent doses as often as every 60 minutes, although 4-to 8-hour intervals
may be satisfactory until symptoms are controlled (maximum, 18 mg daily) switch to oral formulation as soon as
possible. Schizophrenia requiring prolonged parenteral antipsychotic therapy, by IM injection (long-acting), ADULT
(stabilized on oral haloperidol), 10–15 times the oral daily dose (oral haloperidol =10 mg daily for elderly or
debilitated) or 20 times the oral daily dose (oral haloperidol >10 mg daily for high risk of relapse) into the deltoid or
gluteal muscle, not exceeding 100 mg every 4 weeks; if dose conversion exceeds 100 mg, administer a second
injection in 3–7 days; following initial dose, taper the oral dose and discontinue following the subsequent 2 or 3
injections; administer the total dose every 4 weeks with a maximum dose of 450 mg. Tourette syndrome, by
mouth, ADULT, initially 0.5 mg 2 or 3 times daily, slowly titrate dose based on efficacy and tolerability up to a
maintenance dose of 0.5–3 mg daily or 0.25–15 mg daily, up to a maximum of 100 mg once daily, CHILD 3-12 years,
initially 0.5 mg daily in 2–3 divided doses, slowly increase by 0.5 mg once daily every 5–7 days to an average
maintenance dose of 0.05 to 0.075 mg/kg daily in 2–3 divided doses; no benefit is seen with doses >6 mg once daily.

Administration

ORAL › 2 mg tablet (Rx)

For oral administration, may be taken with or without food, but preferably taken with meals to minimize GI
irritation. For IM injection as decanoate formulation, administer by IM only, using a 21-gauge needle. Do NOT
administer by IV injection. The maximum volume per injection site is 3 mL. Z-track injection techniques are
recommended to limit leakage after injections. Do NOT discontinue abruptly because of the possibility of
withdrawal and rebound psychosis. Discontinue or crosstitrate gradually to minimize the potential of withdrawal,
rebound psychosis, extrapyramidal side effects, cholinergic rebound, rebound insomnia, and unwanted
pregnancy, unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Use with caution and initiate with lower dose.

Page 2 of 5



April 25, 2026, 1:17:57 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Management of manifestations of psychotic disorders; tics and vocal utterances in Tourette syndrome; second-line
treatment of severe behavior problems in children of combative, explosive hyperexcitability; second-line short-term
treatment of hyperactive children; treatment of schizophrenic patients who require prolonged parenteral
antipsychotic therapy.

Contraindications

Comatose state, CNS depression, Parkinson’s disease, blood dyscrasias, bone marrow suppression, subcortical brain
injury, IV administration, significant depressive states, previous spastic diseases, young children.

Precautions

WARNING: Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased
risk of death.

Altered cardiac conduction (cases of sudden death, QT prolongation, and torsades de pointes); orthostatic
hypotension; cardiovascular disease; respiratory disorder; blood dyscrasias; some fatal)

Anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia, blurred vision, urinary retention); hyperprolactinemia;
neuroleptic malignant syndrome; temperature regulation (impaired core body temperature regulation); thyroid
dysfunction.

CNS depression; extrapyramidal symptoms (e.g., pseudoparkinsonism, acute dystonic reactions, akathisia, and
tardive dyskinesia; risk of dystonia may be greater with increased doses); falls; bipolar disorder; Parkinson disease;
seizure disorder; glaucoma.

Esophageal dysmotility or aspiration.

Elderly (tardive dyskinesia, especially among women; potentially inappropriate; avoid use in patients =65 years with
dementia (mortality and cerebrovascular accidents, cognitive decline, and SIADH or hyponatremia, unless all
nonpharmacologic options have failed or are not possible or the patient is threatening substantial harm to self or to
others).

Pregnancy (abnormal muscle movements and withdrawal symptoms in newborns with fetal exposure during the third
trimester); lactation (tardive dyskinesia, dystonia, and sedation).

SKILLED TASKS. May impair ability to perform tasks, which require mental alertness, like driving or operating
machinery.

Page 3 of 5



April 25, 2026, 1:17:57 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Syncope, extrapyramidal reaction, parkinsonianlike syndrome, dystonia, dry mouth, hypertonia,
drowsiness, akathisia, headache, dizziness, neurolepticinduced deficit syndrome, decreased sweating,
galactorrhea, amenorrhea, constipation, abdominal pain, xerostomia, sialorrhea, constipation, urinary retention,
hyperkinesia, tremor, bradykinesia, oculogyric crisis, long-term skin pigmentation changes, depression, weight loss,
tardive dyskinesia (long term use, irreversible).

Less Common: Dyspnea, edema

Rare: Cholestatic jaundice, blood dyscrasias (leukocytosis or leukopenia, eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia,
agranulocytosis), neuroleptic malignant syndrome, seizures, changes in body thermoregulation.

NOTE: Patients taking this drug may experience weight gain and/or sedation.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Haloperidol: Anticholinergics (anticholinergic effects)
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Antihypertensives [except Guanethidine], Beta Blockers
[except Atenolol, Nadolol] (antihypertensive effect) CNS Depressants (central effects) Vasopressors, e.g.
Epinephrine (lowers blood pressure)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Haloperidol: Methylphenidate, Metoclopramide, NSAIDs Lithium
(encephalopathic syndrome)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Diuretics, Hypotension-associated Agents
(hypotension) Glucagon (GI adverse effects) Iohexol, Iomeprol, Iopamidol (seizures) Mequitazine (arrhythmogenic
effect) Methylphenidate, Mirabegron Photosensitizing Agents (photosensitizing effect) QTc-prolonging Agents
(torsades de pointes) Serotonin Modulators (neuroleptic malignant syndrome; serotonin syndrome) SSRIs
(psychomotor impairment) Topiramate (hyperthermia)
Reduces absorption of Nitroglycerin
Reduces therapeutic effect of Haloperidol: Methylphenidate (inhibits antipsychotic and moodstabilizing activity)
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Prokinetics, Secretin Amphetamines (stimulant effect) Dopamine
Agonists (antagonism) Guanethidine (antihypertensive effect) Methylphenidate (stimulatory effect) Urea Cycle
Disorder Agents (increases plasma ammonia concentrations)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Delayed gastric emptying with Potassium Salts (Oral)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Nilotinib (QT prolongation; torsades de pointes)
Other Antipsychotics (increased hospitalization rates and length of stay; increased mortality; QTc prolongation;
torsades de pointes)

Mechanism of Action

Haloperidol is a butyrophenone typical antipsychotic that blocks postsynaptic dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in the
mesolimbic system and decreases the release of hypothalamic and hypophyseal hormones. It has the lowest relative
risk for sedation, anticholinergic effects, and hypotension, but conversely a very high relative risk for extrapyramidal
symptoms. It is also formulated as a long-acting injectable in the form of its decanoate salt.

Page 4 of 5



April 25, 2026, 1:17:57 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 5 of 5