April 24, 2026, 11:17:39 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

HEPATITIS B IMMUNOGLOBULIN (HUMAN)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J06BB04

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Immune Sera and Immunoglobulins

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Immunoglobulins

CHEMICAL CLASS

Specific Immunoglobulins

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › inj.: 0.5 mL Vial (IM) (Human) (Rx)

IM › inj.: 1 mL Vial (IM) (Human) (Rx)

IM › inj.: 2 mL Vial (IM) (Human) (Rx)

Dosage

Administration

IM › inj.: 0.5 mL Vial (IM) (Human) (Rx)

For IM: Post-exposure: Only in anterolateral aspect of upper thigh and deltoid muscle of upper arm to prevent
injury from injection, care should be taken when giving to patients with thrombocytopenia or bleeding disorders.
For IV: Administer at 2mL/minute. Decrease infusion to ≤1 mL/minute for patient discomfort or infusion-related
adverse events. Actual volume of infusion is dependent upon potency labeled on each individual vial.

Dose Adjustment

Prevention of hepatitis B virus recurrence after liver transplantation: Adjust dose to reach anti-Bs levels of 500 IU/L
within the first week after transplantation. In patients with surgical bleeding, abdominal fluid drainage >500mL or
those undergoing plasmapheresis, administer 10,000 IU/dose every 6 hours until target anti-HBs levels are reached.

Page 1 of 2



April 24, 2026, 11:17:39 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Passive prophylactic immunity to hepatitis B following: Acute exposure to blood containing epatitis B surface
antigen (HBsAg); perinatal exposure of infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers; sexual exposure to HBsAg-positive
persons; household exposure to persons with acute HBV infection. Prevention of hepatitis B virus recurrence after
liver transplantation in HBsAg-positive transplant patients.

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to hepatitis B immune globulin or any component of the formulation; severe allergy to gamma
globulin or anti-immunoglobulin therapies.

Precautions

Hypersensitivity and anaphylactic reactions can occur; immediate treatment (including epinephrine 1:1000) should be
available; Use with caution in patients with previous systemic hypersensitivity to human immunoglobulins; Use with
caution in patients with thrombocytopenia or coagulation disorders, IM injections may be contraindicated; Use with
caution in patients with IgA deficiency;
Product of human plasma; may potentially contain infectious agents which could transmit disease.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Tremor and hypotension

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effects of the following drugs:
Live vaccines (except: influenza virus vaccine
(live/attenuated); rotavirus vaccine; yellow fever vaccine;
zoster vaccine

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2