April 25, 2026, 1:20:18 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

HUMAN RECOMBINANT TISSUE TYPE PLASMINOGEN
ACTIVATOR (ALTEPLASE)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B01AD02

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Antithrombotic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Enzymes (Antithrombotic Agents)

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 50 mg powder (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 50 mg powder (Rx)

NOTE: Each 1 mg of Alteplase provides 580,000 units of human recombinant tissue plasminogen activator activity.
INTRAVENOUS Acute ischemic stroke or thrombotic stroke, by IV infusion, ADULT, 0.9 mg/kg over 60 minutes with
10% of dose as an initial bolus over 1 minute (maximum, 90 mg).

Administration

IV › 50 mg powder (Rx)

Reconstitution of 50-mg vial: Use a large-bore needle, e.g., 18-gauge. Do NOT prime needle with air. Dilute
contents of vial with SWFI supplied by manufacturer. Direct the stream of sterile water into the lyophilized cake.
Slight foaming is normal. Allow to stand until bubbles dissipate. The resulting concentration is 1 mg/mL. Start IV
infusion as soon as possible after the thrombolytic event, preferably within 6 hours. Administer drug as
reconstituted or further diluted with an equal volume of NS or D5W to yield 0.5 mg/mL. Administer 5 mg as an
initial bolus over 1 minute, then give the remainder of the 0.75 mg/kg dose over 60 minutes. Follow infusion with
an IV flush of 30–50 mL of NS or D5W. Do NOT exceed a total dose of 100 mg (higher doses have been associated
with intracranial bleeding). Do NOT use if vacuum in vial has been broken. NOTE: Spontaneous bleeding occurs
twice as often with Alteplase than Heparin. Avoid invasive procedures. IM injections are contraindicated. Avoid
physical manipulation of patient during thrombolytic therapy to prevent bruising.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:20:18 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Management of acute ischemic stroke (within 0–4.5 hours of symptom onset).

Contraindications

Active internal bleeding; history of cerebrovascular accident; recent (within 2 months) intracranial or interspinal
surgery or trauma; intracranial neoplasm; arteriovenous malformation; bleeding disorders; severe uncontrolled
hypertension; likelihood of left heart thrombus; acute pericarditis; bacterial endocarditis; severe liver dysfunction;
age >75; pregnancy; septic thrombophlebitis; concomitant use of oral anticoagulants.

Precautions

WARNING: Avoid administration of Aspirin or IV Heparin within the first 24 hours after treatment. if heparin is
required for other indications, do NOT exceed 10,000 units per day (SC).

If bleeding occurs, stop the infusion, then resume when bleeding stops. Report any signs of bleeding.

Stop therapy immediately if dysrhythmias occur.

Recent major surgery (within 10 days); risk of bleeding from venipuncture or invasive procedures; cerebral vascular
disease; acute stroke; recent GI or GU bleeding; recent trauma; Conditions in which thrombolysis might give rise to
embolic complications such as enlarged left atrium with atrial fibrillation; Hypertension; Hemorrhagic ophthalmic
conditions; External chest compression; Recent or concurrent use of drugs that increase risk of bleeding; Elderly;
Children; Lactation.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Internal and superficial bleeding (cerebral, retroperitoneal, GU, GI), hemorrhage at injection site, increased
blood pressure, decreased pulse, coronary artery reperfusion events (e.g., rhythm disorders, nausea, vomiting,
headache, muscle pain, fever.
Rare: Anaphylaxis, other hypersensitivity reactions.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:20:18 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Alteplase:
Orolingual angioedema: ACE Inhibitors e.g. Enalapril Hemorrhage: Anticoagulants e.g., Warfarin; Antiplatelet Agents,
e.g., Aspirin; Clopidogrel; Dipyridamole, GP IIb/IIIa Inhibitors e.g. Abciximab

Mechanism of Action

A recombinant DNA-derived form of human tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) used as a thrombolytic agent.
The agent t-PA promotes thrombolysis by forming the active proteolytic enzyme plasmin, which is capable of
degrading fibrin, fibrinogen, and factors V, VIII, and XII.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3