April 25, 2026, 1:22:12 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

HYDROXYETHYL STARCH

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05AA07

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Blood and Related Products

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 6% solution, 250 mL bottle (Rx)

IV INFUSION › 6% solution, 500 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 6% solution, 250 mL bottle (Rx)

NOTE: Determine daily dose and rate of infusion based on the amount of blood lost, maintenance or restoration of
hemodynamics, and amount of hemodilution. Administer lowest effective dose for the shortest period possible.
Do NOT administer etherified starches for more than 24 hours. With severe dehydration, administer crystalloid
first. Plasma volume expansion: by IV infusion, ADULT, 500–1,000 mL or 20 mL/kg daily (maximum, 1,500 mL or 50
mL/kg daily); titrate to individual colloid needs, hemodynamics, and hydration status.

Administration

IV › 6% solution, 250 mL bottle (Rx)

Administer by IV infusion only. Administration rates vary depending on the extent of blood loss, age, and clinical
condition of patient. Do NOT exceed 1.2 g/kg per hour (20 mL/kg per hour). Do NOT use if crystalline precipitate
forms or appears as a turbid deep brown solution. May be administered via infusion pump or pressure infusion. If
administered by pressure infusion, air should be withdrawn or expelled from bag prior to infusion to prevent air
embolus. Do NOT administer with blood through the same administration set. Change IV tubing or flush copiously
with NS before administering blood through the same line. Change IV tubing at least every 24 hours.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:22:12 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
Avoid use in patients with preexisting renal dysfunction. Discontinue use at the first sign of renal injury.

Hepatic Impairment:
Use with caution.

Indications

Blood volume expander used in treatment of hypovolemia.

Contraindications

Renal failure with oliguria or anuria (not related to hypovolemia); any fluid overload condition (e.g., pulmonary edema,
CHF) ; preexisting coagulation or bleeding disorders; critically ill adult patients, including patients with sepsis or
burns; severe liver disease; lactic acidosis; leukapheresis.

Precautions

WARNING: Etherified starches are associated with increased bleeding. Avoid in patients with coagulation disorders.

Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions have been associated with mortality and renal injury requiring renal replacement
therapy in critically ill patients. Avoid use in critically ill adult patients, including those with sepsis or burns, as well as
patients admitted to the ICU.

Anaphylactoid reactions (patients allergic to corn may be allergic to hetastarch); Bleeding (not recommended as a
cardiac bypass pump prime; monitor the coagulation status in patients undergoing open heart surgery in association
with cardiopulmonary bypass; may cause coagulation abnormalities in conjunction with a reversible, acquired von
Willebrand-like syndrome and/or factor VIII deficiency when used over a period of days); Fluid overload; Hematologic
reactions; Hepatic impairment; Renal impairment; Critically-ill patients (avoid use in patients with preexisting renal
dysfunction and discontinue use at the first sign of renal injury; monitor renal function in all patients for at least 90
days); Lactation (use with caution).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylactic reactions), pruritus, increased serum amylase,
hemodilution, decreased plasma proteins and hematocrit.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:22:12 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Incompatibilities can occur on mixing with other medicaments.

Mechanism of Action

A nonprotein synthetic colloid used for the prevention or treatment of hypovolemia. Derived from corn starch
composed it expand circulating blood volume by an amount approximately equal to the volume infused.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3