April 25, 2026, 1:21:56 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

HYDROXYCHLOROQUINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

P01BA02

ANATOMICAL

Musculo-Skeletal System

THERAPEUTIC

Other Drugs for Disorders of the Musculo-Skeletal System

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Disease Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs (Dmards)

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 200 mg tablet (as sulfate) NOTE: Hydroxychloroquine sulfate 200 mg is equivalent to 155 mg
hydroxychloroquine base and 250 mg chloroquine phosphate. (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 200 mg tablet (as sulfate) NOTE: Hydroxychloroquine sulfate 200 mg is equivalent to 155 mg hydroxychloroquine base
and 250 mg chloroquine phosphate. (Rx)

Rheumatoid arthritis, by mouth, ADULT, initially 400 to 600 mg daily taken with food or milk; increase dose
gradually until optimum response level is reached; usually after 4– 12 weeks dose should be reduced by ½ to a
maintenance dose of 200 to 400 mg daily in 1–2 divided doses (maximum daily dose, 6.5 mg/kg or 400 mg,
whichever is lower); CHILD, up to 6.5 mg/kg daily or 400 mg, whichever is lower. Lupus erythematosus, by mouth,
ADULT, 400 mg 1–2 times daily for several weeks to months depending on response; 200–400 mg daily in 1 to 2
divided doses for prolonged maintenance therapy (maximum daily dose, 6.5 mg/kg or 400 mg, whichever is lower).

Administration

ORAL › 200 mg tablet (as sulfate) NOTE: Hydroxychloroquine sulfate 200 mg is equivalent to 155 mg hydroxychloroquine base
and 250 mg chloroquine phosphate. (Rx)

Administer with food or milk.

Dose Adjustment

Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
Dose adjustment may be necessary.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:21:56 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Management of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA)

Contraindications

Pre-existing maculopathy of the eye; retinal or visual field changes attributable to 4aminoquinolines; long-term use
in children

Precautions

WARNING: Should be prescribed only by physicians familiar with its use. May cause dizziness and blurred vision.

Cardiovascular effects e.g. rare cardiomyopathy in long term use; hematologic effect e.g. agranulocytosis, aplastic
anemia, and thrombocytopenia;

Neuromuscular effects e.g. myopathy, neuromyopathy, and progressive weakness;

Ophthalmic effects e.g. loss of visual acuity, macular pigmentary changes, and loss of foveal reflex;

G6PD deficiency;

Hepatic impairment;

Porphyria and psoriasis;

Pediatric (use caution due to increased sensitivity to aminoquinolones).

Pregnancy (may decrease the incidence of cardiac malformations associated with neonatal lupus);

Lactation (excreted into breast milk).

SKILLED TASKS. May impair ability to perform skilled tasks, such as operating machinery or driving.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:21:56 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Ataxia, dizziness, emotional disturbance, headache, irritability, lassitude, nerve deafness, nervousness,
nightmares, psychosis, seizure, suicidal tendencies, vertigo, alopecia, bleaching of hair, bullous rash, dyschromia,
exacerbation of psoriasis, pruritus, urticaria, exacerbation of porphyria, weight loss, anorexia, diarrhea, nausea,
stomach cramps, vomiting, agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolysis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia,
hepatic insufficiency, angioedema, myopathy, accommodation disturbance, corneal changes, decreased visual acuity,
epithelial keratopathy, macular degeneration, macular edema, maculopathy, nystagmus, optic disk disorder
(pallor/atrophy), retinal pigment changes, retinal vascular disease, retinitis pigmentosa, retinopathy, scotoma, vision
color changes, visual field defect, tinnitus, bronchospasm, respiratory failure (myopathyrelated)

Less Common: Hypoglycemia (potentially fatal), keratopathy

Rare: Cardiomyopathy

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Artemether, Dapsone (hemolytic reactions),
Lumefantrine, Mefloquine (convulsions; QTcprolongation) [if concomitant use cannot be avoided, delay
administration of mefloquine until at least 12 hours after the last dose of hydrochloroquine]

Mechanism of Action

Hydroxychloroquine is a derivative of chloroquine that has both antimalarial and antiinflammatory activities and is
often used as an antirheumatologic agent in systemic lupus erythematosis and rheumatoid arthritis

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

Not classified

Page 3 of 3