April 25, 2026, 1:18:19 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

HYDROXYUREA

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

L01XX05

ANATOMICAL

Antineoplastic and Immunomodulating Agents

THERAPEUTIC

Antineoplastic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Antineoplastic Agents

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 500 mg capsule (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 500 mg capsule (Rx)

NOTE: All doses should be based on patient’s actual or ideal weight, whichever is less. CML, as initial therapy and
for control of hyperleukocytosis in AML -20-30 mg/kg/day; depending on the height of the WBC count, up to 6
g/day; may require higher doses at extremely high total WBC count. Reduce dose to 1 to 2g/day when total WBC
count reaches 20 x 109/L; in CML, continue therapy until tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy is started; blood cell
counts must be monitored closely if used together with TKIs; in AML, discontinue once definitive chemotherapy is
started; hold therapy for leukopenia or thrombocytopenia, recheck after 3 days and resume if WBC and platelet
counts normalize. Head and neck carcinoma, by mouth, ADULT, 80 mg/kg single dose every third day; begin
administration at least 7 days prior to radiation therapy and continue during and after radiation; administer
radiation therapy at maximum dose. Solid tumors, intermittent therapy, by mouth, ADULT, 80 mg/kg single dose
every third day; Solid tumors, continuous therapy, by mouth, ADULT, 20–30 mg/kg daily single dose;
CHILDREN/ADOLESCENTS, 20– 30 mg/kg orally. Polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, primary
myelofibrosis (cellular phase), by mouth, ADULT, 15 mg/kg once daily. Titrate to control platelets & maintain WBC
count. ß-thalassemia intermedia, CHILD, starting dose of 10 mg/kg /day with dose escalation of 3-5 mg/kg/day
every 8 weeks to maximal tolerated dose. Not to exceed 20 mg/kg/day.

Administration

ORAL › 500 mg capsule (Rx)

Taken orally. Capsule contents may be emptied into a glass of water and taken immediately. Some inert material
used as a vehicle in the capsule may not dissolve and may float on the surface.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:18:19 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Indications

Treatment of acute blastic and chronic phases of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML); management of
myeloproliferative neoplasms (e.g. essential thrombocythemia, polycythemia vera, primary myelofibrosis,
hypereosinophilia, ß-thalassemia); cytoreduction in hyperleukocytosis secondary to acute leukemia; treatment of
sickle cell and thalassemic crisis

Contraindications

Marked bone marrow depression (i.e., leukopenia with <2,500 WBC/mm3 or thrombocytopenia <100,000/mm3);
severe anemia

Precautions

WARNING: Hazardous agent. Use appropriate precautions for handling and disposal.

Bone marrow suppression (e.g. leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, or anemia; monitor blood status before and
periodically during treatment; determine hemoglobin, total leukocyte count, platelet count at least once a week;
address severe anemia with whole blood replacement prior to treatment; during treatment, address anemia with
whole blood replacement without interrupting hydroxyurea therapy; megaloblastic erythropoiesis is self-limiting and
may occur without anemia; may delay plasma iron clearance and reduce iron utilization of RBC).

Dermatologic toxicity (e.g. vasculitic ulcerations, gangrene; discontinue treatment if cutaneous vasculitic toxicity
occurs in myeloproliferative disorders); mucositis (may occur in combination therapy); post-radiation erythema.

Gastric distress (e.g. nausea, vomiting, anorexia; may be controlled by temporary interruption); hepatotoxicity (fatal
hepatotoxicity has occurred in concomitant use of antiretroviral agents, particularly didanosine with or without
stavudine); pancreatitis (fatal pancreatitis has occurred in concomitant use of antiretroviral agents, particularly
didanosine with or without stavudine); renal dysfunction (use with caution).

Elderly (more sensitive to adverse effects).

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:18:19 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

NOTE: Combining hydroxyurea with radiation therapy with may increase the incidence and severity of its side effects.

Common: Bone marrow depression (leukopenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia), drowsiness (large doses), renal tubular
function impairment (temporary)

Less Common: Abnormal bromsulphalein (BSP) retention, chills, dermatological reactions (maculopapular rash, facial
erythema), fever, GI symptoms (stomatitis, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation), malaise

Rare: Alopecia, dysuria, neurological disturbances (headache, dizziness, disorientation, convulsion, hallucination)

Drug Interactions

Pancreatitis, hepatotoxicity, and peripheral neuropathy have occurred when hydroxyurea was administered
concomitantly with antiretroviral drugs, including didanosine and stavudine

Concomitant use with a live virus vaccine may potentiate the replication of the vaccine virus and/or may increase the
adverse reactions of the vaccine virus and result in severe infections

Interference with uric acid, urea, or lactic acid assays may falsely elevate results in patients treated with hydroxyurea

Mechanism of Action

Inhibitor of ribonucleotide reductase, which causes inhibition of DNA synthesis.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 3 of 3