April 25, 2026, 1:24:10 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

HYPROMELLOSE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01KA02

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Ophthalmologicals

CHEMICAL CLASS

For Dry Eyes

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › 5 mg/mL eye drop solution, 10 mL bottle 0.3% ophthalmic solution (OTC)

OPHTHALM › 5 mg/mL eye drop solution, 15 mL bottle 0.3% ophthalmic solution (OTC)

OPHTHALM › 10 mg/mL eye drops solution,10 mL bottle 0.3% ophthalmic solution (OTC)

OPHTHALM › 10 mg/mL eye drops solution,15 mL bottle 0.3% ophthalmic solution (OTC)

OPHTHALM › 0.3% ophthalmic solution, 10 mL bottle (OTC)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › 5 mg/mL eye drop solution, 10 mL bottle 0.3% ophthalmic solution (OTC)

Dry eyes, into the eye, ADULT, instill 1–2 drops into the affected eye(s) as needed. NOTE: Consult your doctor if
symptoms worsen or persist for more than 72 hours.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:24:10 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

OPHTHALM › 5 mg/mL eye drop solution, 10 mL bottle 0.3% ophthalmic solution (OTC)

For external use only. Keep container tightly closed if not in use. Wash hands. Tilt the head back and pull the lower
lid away from the eye to form a pouch. Drop the medicine into the pouch and gently close the eyes. Do not blink.
Keep the eyes closed for 1–2 minutes to allow absorption of medicine. If using a single-dose bottle, discard
remaining contents after use. Do NOT use if solution is cloudy, leaking, has particles, or changes color. Do NOT use
if neck band is broken or missing. Do NOT touch dropper tip to eyelids or other surfaces when placing drops in
eyes to avoid contamination.

Dose Adjustment

NOTE: Consult your doctor if symptoms worsen or persist for more than 72 hours.

Indications

Protectant against further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye.

Precautions

Ocular effects (e.g., transient blurring of vision on instillation);
Glaucoma;
Elderly and children (use with caution);
Pregnancy and lactation (use with caution).

SKILLED TASKS. May impair ability to perform tasks, which
require mental alertness, e.g., operating machinery or
driving.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Eye pain, changes in vision, blurred vision, mild stinging of the eye, foreign body sensation, continued redness, eye
irritation, ocular hyperemia.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:24:10 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

No information found

Mechanism of Action

A methyl and hydroxypropyl mixed ether of cellulose that is used as artificial tears to prevent conjunctival and
corneal damage due to impaired lacrimal secretions.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3