April 25, 2026, 1:25:39 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

IMIQUIMOD

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

D06BB10

ANATOMICAL

Dermatologicals

THERAPEUTIC

Antibiotics and Chemotherapeutics for Dermatological Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Chemotherapeutics for Topical Use

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

TOPIC › 5% Cream Aluminum foil sachet (Rx)

Dosage

TOPIC › 5% Cream Aluminum foil sachet (Rx)

External genital warts, by topical use, ADULT and CHILD, apply 3 times a week on alternate days until total
clearance of warts or for a maximum of 16 weeks

Administration

TOPIC › 5% Cream Aluminum foil sachet (Rx)

Wash hands prior to and following application. For topical use only. Apply a thin layer prior to normal sleeping hours
and leave on skin for approximately 6-10 hours, then remove with mild soap and water. Non-occlusive dressings
may be used in the management of skin reactions.

Dose Adjustment

Renal and Hepatic impairment:
No dosage adjustments provided in the manufacturer’s labeling.

Indications

Treatment of external genital and perianal warts.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 1:25:39 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Precautions

Avoid or minimize exposure to sunlight;
Local inflammatory reactions, flu-like symptoms, and vulvar swelling;
Patients with actinic keratosis, autoimmune disorders, and basal cell carcinoma;
Not recommended for oral, ophthalmic, urethral, intravaginal, cervical, rectal, or intra-anal human papilloma viral
disease.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Application site reaction, URTI, erythema, erosion, excoriation, edema, and itching.

Less Common:
Sinusitis, burning sensation, headache, squamous carcinoma, diarrhea, bleeding, stinging, pain, eczema, induration,
tenderness, irritation, back pain, fatigue, atrial fibrillation, viral infection, dizziness, vomiting, UTI, fever, rigor, and
alopecia.

Rare:
Headache, flu-like symptoms, and myalgia.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases levels or effects of Imiquimod: Trastuzumab

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases levels or effects of imiquimod: BCG
Increases levels or effects of imiquimod: Tacrolimus

Mechanism of Action

Imiquimod, an immune response modifier, is a Toll-like receptor 7 agonist that activates immune cells. Topical
application to the skin is associated with increases in
markers for cytokines and immune cells.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2