April 25, 2026, 1:28:01 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

INSULIN GLARGINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

A10AE04

ANATOMICAL

Alimentary Tract and Metabolism

THERAPEUTIC

Drugs Used in Diabetes

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Insulin and Analogues

CHEMICAL CLASS

Insulins and analogues for injection, fast-acting

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

SC › 100 IU/mL in 10 mL Vial (Rx)

SC › 100 IU/mL in 3 mL pre-filled pen (Rx)

Dosage

SC › 100 IU/mL in 10 mL Vial (Rx)

For Type 1 Diabetes mellitus, by subcutaneous, ADULT, 25 IU once daily at the same time each day. Recommended
dosing regimen is 0.5 IU per kg per day. For Type 2 Diabetes mellitus, by subcutaneous, ADULT,10 IU once daily at
the same time each day. Recommended dosing regimen is 0.2 IU per kg per day.

Administration

SC › 100 IU/mL in 10 mL Vial (Rx)

Do not administer Insulin glargine intravenously or via an insulin pump. Intravenous administration of the usual
subcutaneous dose could result in severe hypoglycemia Rotate injection sites within an injection area (abdomen,
thigh, or deltoid) to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy.

Dose Adjustment

Dose adjustments and close metabolic monitoring is recommended if switching between insulin glargine
preparations.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:28:01 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Insulin glargine is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and children with type 1 diabetes mellitus and in
adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Limitation of use: Insulin glargine is not recommended for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis. Intravenous short-
acting insulin is the preferred treatment for this condition.

Contraindications

Do not use in patients with hypersensitivity to Insulin glargine or one of its excipients

Precautions

Hypoglycemia, hypersensitivity and allergic reactions, renal impairment, and hepatic impairment.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Major risk: Hypoglycemia
Uncommon: Allergic reactions to recombinant human insulin
Rare or very rare: Myalgia, sodium retention, taste altered, atrophy of subcutaneous fat at the site of insulin injection
(lipoatrophy)
Others: Lipohypertrophy

Drug Interactions

Certain drugs may affect glucose metabolism, requiring insulin dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood
glucose

The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking anti-adrenergic drugs (e.g., beta-blockers,
clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine)

Mechanism of Action

Insulin glargine is a long-acting analogue of human insulin. Insulin and its analogs lower blood glucose by stimulating
peripheral glucose uptake, especially by skeletal muscle and fat, and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production. Insulin
inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis, and enhances protein synthesis.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:28:01 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3