April 25, 2026, 1:31:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

IOPAMIDOL

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

V08AB04

ANATOMICAL

Various

THERAPEUTIC

Contrast Media

PHARMACOLOGICAL

X-Ray Contrast Media, Iodinated

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

I-ARTER › IV › 612 mg/mL equivalent to 300 mg iodine, 50 mL vial (Rx)

I-ARTER › IV › 612 mg/mL equivalent to 300 mg iodine, 100 mL vial (Rx)

I-ARTER › IV › 755 mg/mL equivalent to 370 mg iodine, 50 mL vial or bottle (Rx)

IV › 755 mg/mL equivalent to 370 mg iodine, 100 mL vial or bottle (Rx)

Dosage

I-ARTER / IV › 612 mg/mL equivalent to 300 mg iodine, 50 mL vial (Rx)

NOTE: Individualize dose and concentration based on age, body size, size of the vessel and its blood flow rate,
anticipated pathology and degree and extent of opacification required, structure(s) or area to be examined,
disease processes affecting the patient, and equipment and technique to be employed. Use the lowest dose
necessary to obtain adequate visualization to reduce the possibility of an adverse reaction. By rapid IV injection,
Procedure: Cerebral Arteriography 300 mg/mL Preparation: ADULT, 8–12 mL with total multiple doses ranging to
90 mL Procedure: Peripheral Arteriography 300 mg/mL Preparation: ADULT, 5–40 mL into the femoral or subclavian
artery; 25–50 mL into the aorta Procedure: Cerebral Arteriography 300 mg/mL Preparation: ADULT, 8–12 mL with
total multiple doses ranging to 90 mL Procedure: Peripheral Arteriography 300 mg/mL Preparation: ADULT, 5–40
mL into the femoral or subclavian artery; 25–50 mL into the aorta By rapid IV injection, Procedure: Selective
Visceral Arteriography and Aortography 370 mg Iodine: ADULT, 50 mL into the aorta or celiac artery; 10 mL into the
renal arteries (maximum total dose, 225 mL) Procedure: Pediatric Angiocardiography (single injection) 370 mg
Iodine: CHILD 10–18 years, 20–50 mL; CHILD 2–9 years, 15–30 mLl; CHILD <2 years, 10–15 mL Procedure: Pediatric
Angiocardiography (cumulative injection) 370 mg Iodine: CHILD 10–18 years, 125 mL; CHILD 5–9 years, 100 mL; CHILD
2–4 years, 50 mL; CHILD <2 years, 40 mL Procedure: Coronary Arteriography and Ventriculography 370 mg Iodine:
ADULT, 2–10 mL for selective coronary artery injections; 25–50 mL following injection at the aortic root (maximum
total dose for combined procedures, 200 mL) By rapid IV injection Procedure: Excretory Urography 300 mg Iodine:
ADULT, 50 mL; CHILD, 1.2 to 3.6 mL/kg, not to exceed a total dose of 30 g Iodine 370 mg Iodine: ADULT, 40 mL

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 1:31:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

I-ARTER / IV › 612 mg/mL equivalent to 300 mg iodine, 50 mL vial (Rx)

For IV and other parenteral routes as appropriate. Perform all preparation and administration processes in a
suitable work area, such as laminar flow hood, utilizing aseptic technique. Warm solution to body temperature
shortly before administration to improve tolerability and ease of injection. Do NOT admix with other drugs,
solutions, or total parenteral nutrition mixtures. Draw product into the syringe and administer using sterile
technique. The container-closure system may be penetrated only one time. Once punctured, do NOTremove from
aseptic work area during the entire period of use. Fluid transfer should be completed no longer than 10 hours from
withdrawal of contents. Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to
administration. Discard products that show signs of crystallization or damage to the container-closure system,
including the glass container, stopper and/or crimp. Discard 10 hours after initial puncture. Discard unused
portions. NOTE: Patients should be well hydrated prior to and following administration.

Dose Adjustment

Pheochromocytoma: Administer absolute minimum amount required.

Indications

For angiography throughout the cardiovascular system, including cerebral and peripheral arteriography, coronary
arteriography and ventriculography, selective visceral arteriography, and aortography; for peripheral venography
(phlebography); for angiocardiography; for computed tomographic (CT) imaging of the head and body.

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 1:31:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Precautions

WARNING: NOT for intrathecal use. Inadvertent intrathecal administration has resulted in death, convulsions,
cerebral hemorrhage, coma, paralysis, arachnoiditis, acute renal failure, cardiac arrest, seizures, rhabdomyolysis,
hyperthermia, and brain edema.

WARNING: Procedures involving radiopaque diagnostic agents should only be done by qualified personnel with in-
depth knowledge of the procedure to be done. Emergency treatment for severe reactions and appropriate facilities
needs to be readily available should there be any complication in the procedure. Severe delayed reactions may occur
after administration; well- trained personnel and emergency facilities should be readily available within 30- 60
minutes after administration.

Serious, rarely fatal, thromboembolic events causing myocardial infarction and stroke have been reported during
angiographic procedures. To minimize thromboembolic events, meticulous IV administration techniques are
recommended, including close attention to guidewire and catheter manipulation, use of manifold systems and/or
three-way stopcocks, frequent catheter flushing with heparinized saline solutions, and minimizing the length of the
procedure. Use of plastic syringes in place of glass syringes has been reported to decrease but not eliminate the
likelihood of in vitro clotting.

May promote sickling in individuals who are homozygous for sickle cell disease if injected intravenously or intra-
arterially.

WARNING: Potentially hazardous in patients with multiple myeloma or other paraproteinemia, particularly
therapeutically resistant anuria.

Development of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCAR) may develop after 1 hour to several weeks following IV
administration, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS/TEN), acute generalized
exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS).

Blood coagulation;
Thrombosis, phlebitis, severe ischemic disease, local infection, or total obstructed venous system (use with special
care when venography is performed);
Renal and hepatic impairment;
Thyroid storm;
Diabetes;
Children (at higher risk of experiencing adverse events, eg., asthma, cyanotic heart disease, and congestive heart
failure);
Lactation.

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 1:31:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Hot flashes, angina pectoris, flushing, bradycardia, hypotension, hives, pain, burning sensation, nausea, warmth

Less Common:
Tachycardia, hypertension, myocardial ischemia, circulatory collapse, bigeminy, extrasystoles, ventricular fibrillation,
angina pectoris, transient ischemic attack, thrombophlebitis, vasovagal reaction, tingling in arms, grimace,
faintness, vomiting, anorexia, throat constriction, dyspnea, pulmonary edema, rash, urticaria, pruritus, headache,
fever, chills, excessive sweating, back spasm, taste alterations, nasal congestion, visual disturbances, urinary
retention

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Cholecystographic Agents (renal toxicity)

TEST INTERACTION. May interfere with iodine uptake studies, which depend on iodine estimations for up to 16 days
following administration.

Mechanism of Action

A non-ionic radiopaque contrast that permits radiographic visualization of the internal structures of the human body
by opacifying vessels in the path of flow of the contrast medium.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 4 of 4