April 25, 2026, 1:33:57 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ISOFLURANE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N01AB06

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Anesthetics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Anesthetics, General

CHEMICAL CLASS

Halogenated Hydrocarbons

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

RESPIR › 100 mL bottle (Rx)

RESPIR › 250 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

RESPIR › 100 mL bottle (Rx)

Anesthesia, induction, by inhalation, ADULT, 1.5–3% with oxygen or oxygen-nitrous oxide mixture. Anesthesia,
induction, by inhalation, ADULT, 0.5% v/v with oxygen or oxygen and nitrous oxide mixture, increased to 1.5–3% v/v
with oxygen or oxygen-nitrous oxide mixture. Anesthesia, maintenance, by inhalation, ADULT, 1 to 2.5% v/v with
concomitant oxygen and nitrous oxide mixture, then 1.5–3.5% v/v with oxygen alone. Anesthesia, maintenance
during caesarian section, ADULT women, 0.5–0.75% v/v with oxygen and nitrous oxide mixture.

Administration

RESPIR › 100 mL bottle (Rx)

Administer via isoflurane-specific calibrated vaporizer or vaporizer with calculated flow required. Use an ultra-
short-acting barbiturate to avoid coughing, breath-holding, or laryngospasm during induction. NOTE: Select
premedication based on the need of the individual patient, considering that secretions are weakly stimulated by
isoflurane, and the heart rate tends to be increased. The use of anticholinergic drugs is a matter of choice.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:33:57 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Indications

Induction and maintenance of general anesthesia.

Contraindications

Known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia; history of hepatitis following halogenated
inhalational anesthetic; history of liver dysfunction, jaundice or unexplained fever, leucocytosis, or eosinophilia
following halogenated anesthetic administration.

Precautions

Increased intracranial pressure; Coronary artery disease; Patients at risk of QT prolongation and
bronchoconstriction; Hypotension; Hypovolemia; Neuromuscular disease, e.g., Duchenne muscular dystrophy;
myasthenia gravis; mitochondrial disorders; Addison’s disease; Myxedema; Hepatic impairment:
Carboxyhemoglobinemia (do not allow CO2 absorbents in anesthetic apparatus to dry out when delivering isoflurane
to minimize the risk of developing carboxyhemoglobinaemia); Hemodynamically compromised and debilitated
patients.

Children (use with caution in <3 years); Pregnancy and
lactation.

Adverse Drug Reactions

No information found

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:33:57 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Blood pressure-lowering agents, (hypotensive effect);
Dopamine; Epinephrine nasal; oral inhalation and systemic, Norepinehrine (arrhythmogenic effect); Metyrosine;
Pramipexole (sedative effect); Neuromuscular-blocking Agents; Nondepolarizing (neuromuscular-blocking effect);
QTc-prolonging Agents (QTc-prolonging effect); Ropinirole; Rotigotine (sedative effect)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Isoflurane: Bambuterol; Ephedrine, Nasal and Systemic (arrhythmogenic
effect); Methylphenidate (hypertensive effect); Rufinamide (sleepiness and dizziness)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Fenoterol; Formoterol; Isoproterenol; Metaraminol
(arrhythmogenic effect); Other CNS depressants; SSRIs (psychomotor impairment)

Mechanism of Action

Isoflurane is a highly halogenated methyl ester that produces profound respiratory depression. Inhaled anesthetics
alter activity of neuronal ion channels, particularly the fast-synaptic neurotransmitter receptors. They can also
depress myocardial contractility, decrease blood pressure and sympathetic nervous activity.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3