April 25, 2026, 1:36:02 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ISOTONIC ELECTROLYTE SOLUTION FOR IV INFUSION

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05BB01

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Affecting the Electrolyte Balance

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 1 L bottle (Rx)

Composition: Sodium chloride 6.80 g Potassium chloride 0.30 g Calcium chloride dehydrate 0.37 g Magnesium
chloride hexahydrate 0.20 g Sodium acetate trihydrate 3.27 g Malic acid 0.67 g

Dosage

IV › 1 L bottle (Rx)

The dosage depends on the age, weight, clinical and biological conditions of the patient and concomitant therapy.

Administration

IV › 1 L bottle (Rx)

The solution is administered IV; do NOT administer unless the solution is clear and container is undamaged.

Indications

Use in the replacement of extracellular fluid losses in the case of isotonic dehydration, where acidosis is present or
imminent.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 1:36:02 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypervolemia; severe congestive heart failure, renal failure with oliguria or anuria; severe general edema;
hyperkalemia; hypercalcemia; metabolic alkalosis.

Precautions

Use in caution in patients with mild to moderate cardiac insufficiency, peripheral or pulmonary edema or extracellular
hyperhydration, hypernatremia, hyperchloremia, hypertonic dehydration, hypertension, impaired renal function,
present or imminent eclampsia, aldosteronism or other conditions or treatment associated with sodium retention;
Use in caution in patients with cardiac disease, or conditions predisposing to hyperkalemia such as renal or
adrenocortical insufficiency, acute dehydration, or extensive tissue destruction as occurs with severe burns;
May cause extravasation due to calcium content and should be given cautiously in patients with impaired renal
function or diseases associated with elevated vitamin D concentrations such as sarcoidosis.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Less Common: Adverse reactions associated to the technique of administration including febrile response, infection
at the injection site, local pain or reaction, vein irritation, vein irritation, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending
from the site of injection and extravasation.
Rare: Urticaria due to intravenous administration of magnesium salts.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Corticosteroids- may be associated with sodium and water retention, with increased risk of edema and
hypertension.
Digoxin- enhanced hypercalcemia, which can lead to cardiac arrhythmia.
Drugs that can cause hyperkalemia (e.g., suxamethonium, potassium-sparing diuretics or tacrolimus) - increased risk
of hyperkalemia.
Vitamin D- may induce hypercalcemia.

Mechanism of Action

An isotonic electrolyte solution resembling human plasma.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2