April 25, 2026, 1:36:33 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ISOXSUPRINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

C04AA01

ANATOMICAL

Cardiovascular System

THERAPEUTIC

Peripheral Vasodilators

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Peripheral Vasodilators

CHEMICAL CLASS

2-Amino-1-Phenylethanol Derivatives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 10 mg (as Hydrochloride) Tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 40 mg (as Hydrochloride) Tablet (Rx)

IM › IV INFUSION › inj. 5 mg/mL (as Hydrochloride) in 2 mL Ampul (IM, IV infusion) (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 10 mg (as Hydrochloride) Tablet (Rx)

Premature labor, treatment, IV infusion, ADULT, 200 to 500 micrograms/minute, adjusted according to the
response of the patient until control is achieved; once labor has been arrested, by IM injection, ADULT, 10 mg every
3–8 hours. Premature labor, prophylaxis, by mouth, ADULT, 30 to 90 mg daily after parental therapy. NOTE: Oral
therapy is no longer recommended because of lack of reported evidence of benefit from this route.

Administration

ORAL › 10 mg (as Hydrochloride) Tablet (Rx)

For parenteral administration, may be administered by syringe pump. Limit therapy to a maximum of 48 hours. For
oral administration, may be taken with meals, milk, or antacids to minimize GI discomfort.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:36:33 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

For management of uncomplicated premature
labor; uterine hypermotility disorder; threatened
abortion; dysmenorrhea

Contraindications

Recent arterial hemorrhage or bleeding; immediately postpartum; infection

Precautions

WARNING: Extreme caution is required for risk of maternal pulmonary edema or respiratory distress syndrome.

Elderly (avoid use due to its lack of reported efficacy in this age group); Pregnancy (monitor maternal blood pressure
and hydration, as well as maternal and fetal heart rates all throughout infusion).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Chest pain, hypotension, tachycardia, dizziness, rash, abdominal distress, nausea, vomiting, transient flushing,
maternal pulmonary edema, fetal tachycardia, trembling, nervousness, weakness, transient palpitation

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Isoxsuprine:
Barbiturates, Nicorandil (hypotensive effect), effect)

Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Risperidone (hypotensive effect)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Isoxsuprine:
Hypotensive Agents (orthostatic hypotension)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Duloxetine, Levodopa (orthostatic hypotension)

Mechanism of Action

A beta-adrenergic agonist that stimulates the beta2 receptors, causing direct relaxation of vascular and uterine
smooth muscle.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:36:33 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3