April 25, 2026, 1:36:50 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ITRACONAZOLE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J02AC02

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antifungals for Systemic Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Triazole Derivatves

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 100 mg capsule (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 100 mg capsule (Rx)

Prophylaxis of Candidiasis, by mouth, ADULT, 200 mg twice daily until recovery of neutropenia. Treatment of
allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, by mouth, ADULT, 200 mg twice daily for 16 weeks or longer. Tinea
versicolor, by mouth, ADULT, 200 mg twice daily for 2-4 weeks, CHILD, by mouth, 5-10 mg/kg/day for 2-4 weeks

Administration

ORAL › 100 mg capsule (Rx)

Itraconazole capsules should be administered with a full meal to ensure maximal absorption of the drug. Oral
doses >200 mg/day are given in 2 divided doses; Do not administer with antacids. Take with food, it is best to
administer itraconazole after meals at the same time each day. The capsules should not be used for the treatment
of oropharyngeal or esophageal candidiasis; Efficacy has not been established and this formulation may be less
effective than the oral solution for these infections.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Refer to adult dosing.

Renal Impairment:
Use with caution in patients with renal impairment. Dosage adjustment may be needed.

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 1:36:50 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Used in treatment of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, second line treatment for cutaneous fungal infections
and prophylaxis of candidiasis

Contraindications

Treatment of onychomycosis (or other non-life-threatening indications) in patients with evidence of ventricular
dysfunction, such as congestive heart failure (CHF) or a history of CHF;
Treatment of onychomycosis in women who are pregnant or intend to become pregnant; Treatment of
dermatomycosis (tinea pedis, tinea cruris, tinea corporis, pityriasis versicolor) in women who are pregnant or intend
to become pregnant.

Precautions

WARNING: Congestive heart; High potential for drug interactions.

Monitor patients for: Central Nervous System Depression; Hearing Loss; Heart Failure; Hepatotoxicity;
Hypersensitivity; Neuropathy.

Use with caution in patients with: Cystic Fibrosis; Dermatomycosis; Onychomycosis; Renal Impairment.

Use with caution in special population: Pediatric (the safety and efficacy of itraconazole in children <18 years old have
not been established).

High potential for drug interactions: co-administration with itraconazole can cause elevated plasma concentrations
of certain drugs and can lead to QT prolongation and ventricular tachyarrhythmias, including torsades de pointes.

Absorption of itraconazole capsules is reduced when gastric acidity is reduced (e.g., achlorhydria, acid suppressive
therapy) administer with an acidic beverage (e.g. cola) in patients with reduced gastric acidity and separate
administration from acid suppressive therapy (refer to drug interactions section). Monitor for response.

Appropriate use: Itraconazole should not be used for voriconazole refractory aspergillosis because the same
antifungal and/or resistance mechanism(s) may be shared by both agents.

Itraconazole capsule is not bioequivalent or interchangeable to other oral itraconazole preparations. Due to variable
bioavailability of oral preparations, therapeutic drug monitoring is advisable.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Nausea and vomiting, edema, headache, rash, diarrhea, fatigue, fever, rhinitis, URTI, sinusitis, abdominal pain,
dizziness, hypertension, flatulence.

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 1:36:50 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Avoid concurrent administration with astemizole, bepridil, colchicine, disopyramide, domperidone, dronedarone,
eplerenone, ergot derivatives, felodipine, fesoterodine, irinotecan, ivabradine, midazolam (oral), quinidine,
ranolazine, simvastatin, solifenacin, ticagrelor, lercanidipine,

Increases serum concentration of Antiretroviral Agents

Increases serum concentration of Itraconazole:
Antiretroviral Agents, Aliskiren, Alprazolam Aripiprazole, Benzodiazepines e.g. Diazepam; Bosentan, Budesonide,
Calcium Channel Blocking Agents e.g. Amlodipine; Carbamazepine; Cardiac Glycoside e.g. Digoxin; Cilostazol,
Colchicine, Corticosteroids, Dabigatran etexilate, Disopyramide, Domperidone, Doxorubicin, Dutasteride
Fexofenadine, Fluticasone, Fusidic Acid, Hydrocodone, Medroxyprogesterone, Midazolam, Mifepristone, Parecoxib,
Propafenone, Repaglinide, Salmeterol, Saquinavir, Sildenafil, Tramadol, Vinblastine, Vitamin K Antagonists e.g.
Warfarin; Zolpidem

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Calcium Channel Blocking Agents e.g. Amlodipine

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Itraconazole:
Antiarrhythmic Agents, Antilipidemic Agents, Benzodiazepines e.g. Diazepam; Ergot Alkaloids e.g. Ergotamine;
Fentanyl, Pimozide, Phosphodiesterase Type 5 Inhibitors e.g. Sildenafil; QT prolonging Agents, Oxycodone,
Vincristine

Reduces therapeutic effect of Itraconazole:
Amphotericin B Antacids, Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs), Carbamazepine, Isoniazid,
Nevirapine

Increases serum concentration of Itraconazole:
Meloxicam

Reduces absorption of Sucralfate

Decreases metabolism of Itraconazole:
Cyclosporine, Docetaxel

Increases serum concentration of the following drugs:
Antacids, Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs), Carbamazepine, Isoniazid, Nevirapine

Increases serum concentration of Itraconazole:
Meloxicam

Reduces absorption of Sucralfate Decreases metabolism of Itraconazole:
Cyclosporine, Docetaxel

Mechanism of Action

Azoles are synthetic compounds that can be classified as either imidazoles or triazoles according to the number of
nitrogen atoms. Azoles exhibit activity by reducing the ergosterol synthesis through inhibition of fungal cytochrome

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 1:36:50 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

P450 enzymes.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 4 of 4