April 25, 2026, 1:37:23 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

KANAMYCIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J01GB04

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antimycobacterials

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Drugs for Treatment of Tuberculosis

CHEMICAL CLASS

Drugs for Multidrug Resistant Tuberculosis (MDRTB)

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › [Access] 1 g vial (as sulfate) (Rx)

Dosage

IM › [Access] 1 g vial (as sulfate) (Rx)

NOTE: Dosing should be based on ideal body weight. Tuberculosis, by IM injection or IV infusion, ADULT and CHILD,
5-7.5 mg/kg/dose in divided doses every 8-12 hours (<15 mg/kg/day).

Administration

IM › [Access] 1 g vial (as sulfate) (Rx)

Administer intramuscularly, deeply in upper outer quadrant of the gluteal muscle. Infuse IV over 30-60 minutes.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Tuberculosis, by deep IM injection or IV infusion, initial dose should be 5-7.5 mg/kg based on ideal body weight;
maintenance dose and interval should be adjusted for estimated renal function; dosing interval in most older
patients is every 12-24 hours.

Renal Impairment:
CrCl 50-80 mL/minute: Administer 60% to 90% of dose or administer every 8-12 hours.
CrCl 10-50 mL/minute: Administer 30% to 70% of dose or administer every 12 hours.
CrCl <10 mL/minute: Administer 20% to 30% of dose or administer every 24-48 hours.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:37:23 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Second line treatment for Mycobacterium tuberculosis in combination with atleast 3 other agents.

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to kanamycin, any component of the formulation or other aminoglycosides; pregnancy.

Precautions

WARNING: May cause nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity.

May cause neuromuscular blockade and respiratory paralysis especially when given soon after anesthesia or muscle
relaxants;
Prolonged use may result in fungal or bacterial infection, including C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) and
pseudomembranous colitis; CDAD has been observed >2 months post-antibiotic treatment;
Not intended for long-term therapy due to toxic hazards associated with extended administration.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Rare: Edema, neurotoxicity, drowsiness, headache, pseudomotor cerebri, skin itching, redness, rash,
photosensitivity, erythema, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, malabsorption syndrome, anorexia, weight loss,
enterocolitis, burning weakness, tremor, muscle cramps.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:37:23 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Botulinum toxin type A, RimabotulinumtoxinB, Colistimethate

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects Kanamycin:
Amphotericin B, Vancomycin, Cisplatin

Enhances therapeutic effect of Kanamycin:
Capreomycin

Decreases excretion of Kanamycon:
NSAIDs

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Kanamycin:
Amphotericin B, Vancomycin, Cisplatin
Loop diuretics e.g. Furosemide

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Bisphosphonate derivatives e.g. Alendronate
Carboplatin, Cyclosporine
Gallium nitrate

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
BCG, Typhoid vaccine

Decreases serum concentration of Kanamycin:
Penicillins

Mechanism of Action

Antimycobacterial drugs are used in the treatment of diseases caused by members of the Mycobacterium genus,
including tuberculosis (TB) and leprosy.
Combination chemotherapy is essential to kill heterogeneous populations of bacterial cells located in different
conditions within the host, and to prevent drug resistance.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 3 of 3