April 25, 2026, 1:38:28 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

LACTATED RINGER’S SOLUTION (RINGER’S LACTATE)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05XA30

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Additives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 500 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

IV › 1 L bottle / bag (Rx)

Composition: Na+ 130 mmol/L K+ 4 mmol/L Ca++ 1.22 – 1.5 mmol/L Cl- 109 mmol/L Lactate 28 mmol/L

Dosage

IV › 500 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

Dose is dependent on age, weight, and clinical condition of patient.

Administration

IV › 500 mL bottle / bag (Rx)

For IV administration. Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration. Use only if solution is clear and seal
intact.

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
Select dose with care due to an increased risk of adverse effects, e.g., sodium and potassium retention.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:38:28 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Fluid and electrolyte replacement
therapy in the presence of acidosis; IV infusion in the initial management of the injured or wounded; hypovolemic
shock

Contraindications

Metabolic and respiratory
alkalosis; hypocalcemia; hypochlorhydria; lactic acidosis; anuria; oliguria; hyperkalemia; increased BUN; cardiac
failure.

Precautions

WARNING: Mix infusion solutions thoroughly after adding concentrated electrolytes to avoid possible toxicity.

Avoid simultaneous administration with blood; hyperkalemia; hypernatremia; hyperchloremia; cardiac diseases;
alkalosis; increased blood glucose; hepatic impairment; conditions which may cause potassium or sodium retention,
fluid overload or edema, e.g., renal impairment, hypervolemia, overhydration; There is risk for hyponatremia due to
lower sodium
content compared to 0.9% NaCl or Balanced
Multiple Replacement Solution.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Less Common: Pain and inflammation at the injection site, phlebitis, tissue necrosis, venous irritation, venous
thrombosis.
Rare: Angioedema, anxiety, blood pressure decreased, bronchospasm, chest discomfort and pain, cough, decreased
heart rate, dysgeusia, dyspnea, edema, erythema, flushing, headache, hyperkalemia, hypersensitivity reactions,
including anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions; hypesthesia, nausea, paresthesia, pruritus, pyrexia, rash,
respiratory distress, tachycardia, throat irritation, urticaria.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:38:28 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Alters renal clearance of the following drugs:
Increased renal clearance: Acidic Drugs, e.g., Salicylates, Barbiturates; Lithium

Decreased renal clearance:
Basic Drugs, e.g., Sympathomimetics

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Hyperkalemia: Drugs which can cause hyperkalemia, e.g., Potassium-sparing Diuretics, Angiotensin II Receptor
Antagonists, ACE Inhibitors, Immunosuppressants
Hypercalcemia; Thiazide Diuretics, Vitamin D

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Ceftriaxone (Ceftriaxone-Calcium salt precipitation in the bloodstream)

Mechanism of Action

A sterile, non-pyrogenic, lactate-containing solution, which serves as a source of hydration and electrolytes and
produces a metabolic alkalinizing effect.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3