April 25, 2026, 1:40:03 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

LAMOTRIGINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N03AX09

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Antiepileptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antiepileptics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 50 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 50 mg tablet (Rx)

Seizures, by mouth, ADULT and CHILD >12 years, weeks 1 and 2: initially 25 mg once daily at night; weeks 3 and 4: 50
mg once daily at night; week 5 onwards: increase by 50 mg daily every 1–2 weeks to a maintenance dose of 225–375
mg daily in 2 divided doses; CHILD 2–12 years, weeks 1 and 2: 0.3 mg/kg daily in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down
to the nearest whole tablet; weeks 3 and 4: 0.6 mg/kg daily in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole
tablet; weeks 5 onwards: increase dose every 1–2 weeks by 0.6 mg/kg daily, rounded to the nearest whole tablet to
a maintenance dose of 4.5–7.5 mg/kg daily (maximum daily dose, 300 mg in 2 divided doses). [NOTE: In patients <30
kg, may need to increase dose by as much as 50% based on clinical response].

Administration

ORAL › 50 mg tablet (Rx)

May be taken with or without food.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:40:03 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Select doses with caution. Start at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting greater frequency of decreased
hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy.

Renal Impairment:
Reduce maintenance dose in patients with significant impairment.

Hepatic Impairment:
In moderate and severe impairment without ascites, reduce maintenance doses by 25%.
In severe impairment with ascites, reduce maintenance dose by 50%.

Indications

Antiepileptic drug of choice for pregnant patients.

Contraindications

No information found

Precautions

WARNING: Serious skin rashes. Can cause serious rashes requiring hospitalization and discontinuation of treatment,
including SJS. Nearly all cases of life-threatening rashes occurred within 2–8 weeks of treatment initiation.

Aseptic meningitis; blood dyscrasias (e.g., neutropenia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, and anemias);
CNS depression; seizures; suicidal ideation.

Multiorgan hypersensitivity reactions, i.e., drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms [DRESS];
photosensitivity; hepatic impairment; renal impairment.

Children (at increased risk for developing serious skin rashes during therapy).

Pregnancy (weigh potential benefits to the mother against the risks to the fetus; increased risk of isolated cleft
palate or cleft lip deformity with first trimester exposure); lactation (monitor infant for possible adverse effects).

SKILLED TASKS. May impair ability to perform tasks, which require mental alertness, like driving or operating
machinery.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:40:03 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common or Less Common: Aggression, ataxia, arthralgia, agitation, blurred vision, back pain, diarrhea, dizziness,
drowsiness, diplopia, dry mouthm, headache, nausea, vomiting, insomnia, nystagmus.

Rare: conjunctivitis

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs: CNS Depressants (central effects) Pramipexole, Ropinirole,
Rotigotine (sedative effect)
Increases metabolism of Lamotrigine: Carbamazepine, Rifampin
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Lamotrigine: Rufinamide (sleepiness and dizziness) Valproate (rash)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Carbamazepine, Desmopressin SSRIs (psychomotor
impairment)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases serum concentration of Lamotrigine: Estrogen Derivatives, Estrogen-containing Products, Mefloquine,
UGT Inducers, UGT Substrates
Decreases serum concentration of Progestins (Contraceptive)
Enhances therapeutic effect of Olanzapine (sedative effect)
Increases serum concentration of Lamotrigine: UGT Inhibitors
Increases serum concentration of the following drugs: Organic Cation Transporter 2 Substrates, Procainamide
Reduces therapeutic effect of Lamotrigine: Mefloquine

Mechanism of Action

Lamotrigine is a synthetic phenyltriazine anticonvulsant and mood stabilizer used in seizures and bipolar depression.
It blocks the open channel conformation of voltagesensitive sodium channels and decreases the release of
glutamate and aspartate.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3