April 25, 2026, 1:47:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

LOSARTAN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

C09CA01

ANATOMICAL

Cardiovascular System

THERAPEUTIC

Agents Acting on the Renin-Angiotensin System

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Angiotensin II Antagonists, Plain

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 50 mg tablet (as potassium salt) (Rx)

ORAL › 100 mg tablet (as potassium salt) (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 50 mg tablet (as potassium salt) (Rx)

Hypertension, by mouth, ADULT, usual starting dose, 50 mg once daily; can be administered once or twice daily
with a total daily dose ranging from 25–100 mg (usual initial dose in patients receiving diuretics, or those with
intravascular volume depletion: 25 mg once daily). Nephropathy in type 2 DM and hypertension, by mouth, ADULT,
initial dose, 50 mg once daily; can be increased to 100 mg once daily based on BP response. Stroke reduction, HTN
with LVH, by mouth, ADULT, 50 mg once daily (maximum daily dose, 100 mg); may be in combination with a thiazide
diuretic.

Administration

ORAL › 50 mg tablet (as potassium salt) (Rx)

May be taken with or without food. The patient may feel dizzy when taking this medicine. Advise patient to get up
gradually from sitting or lying position to minimize this effect. and sit or lie down if the patient becomes dizzy or
light-headed.

Page 1 of 5



April 25, 2026, 1:47:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
For severe impairment, refer patient to a specialist.

Hepatic Impairment:
For mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment, dose reduction is warranted.
For severe impairment, refer patient to a specialist.

Indications

Treatment of hypertension; treatment of diabetic nephropathy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (noninsulin
dependent, NIDDM) and a history of hypertension; risk reduction of stroke in patients with HTN and left ventricular
hypertrophy (LVH)

Contraindications

Concomitant use with aliskiren in patients with diabetes mellitus

Precautions

WARNING: Fetal Toxicity. Drugs acting directly on the renin-angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the
developing fetus. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue as soon as possible.

Peripheral vascular disease (patients may be more likely to have renal artery stenosis)
Volume or sodium depletion (may activate the renin-angiotensin system leading to excessive hypotension)
Aortic or mitral valve stenosis and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy; angioedema (may occur rarely; may involve head
and neck or the intestine)
Hypotension (symptomatic hypotension may occur upon initiation in patients who are salt- or volume-depleted);
Heart failure
Hyperkalemia; renal function deterioration (increased risk of hyperkalemia);
Hepatic impairment
Renal artery stenosis (avoid use in patients with unstented unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis).
Surgical patients (if on chronic ARB therapy, intraoperative hypotension may occur with induction and maintenance
of general anesthesia).
Elderly (may be volume-depleted due to diuretic use and/or blunted thirst reflex resulting in inadequate fluid intake).
Pregnancy (avoid use unless essential; may adversely affect fetal and neonatal BP control and renal function)
Lactation (not known if excreted into breastmilk; information is limited).

NOTE: Concomitant use of an ACE inhibitor or renin inhibitor, e.g., Aliskiren, is associated with an increased risk of
hypotension, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.

Page 2 of 5



April 25, 2026, 1:47:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Dizziness, fatigue, headache, hyperkalemia, hypoglycemia, nausea, upper respiratory tract infections,
urinary tract infections
Less Common: Abnormal liver function, angina, back pain, decreased hemoglobin, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dyspnea,
edema, hypotension (first-dose), insomnia, malaise, muscle cramps, myalgia, nasal congestion, palpitation,
pharyngitis, pruritus, rash, sleep disorders
Rare: Anaphylaxis, anemia, angioedema, atrial fibrillation, cerebrovascular accidents, cough, depression, erectile
dysfunction, hepatitis, hyponatremia, pancreatitis, purpura, renal impairment, rhabdomyolysis, syncope,
thrombocytopenia, vasculitis

Page 3 of 5



April 25, 2026, 1:47:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Decreases metabolism of ARB:
Antifungal Agents, e.g., Azole Derivatives, (Systemic), CYP2C8 Substrates, CYP2C9 Substrates

Enhances therapeutic effect (antihypertensive effect) of ARB:
Alfuzosin, Barbiturates e.g. Phenobarbital, Brimonidine (Topical), Canagliflozin, Diazoxide, MAO Inhibitors [except
Linezolid, Tedizolid], Molsidomine, Nicorandil, NSAIDs, Other Antihypertensive Agents, Pentoxifylline,
Phosphodiesterase-5 Inhibitors e.g. Sildenafil, Prostacyclin Analogues e.g. Epoprostenol

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of ARB:
Antifungal Agents, e.g., Azole Derivatives, (Systemic)
Hyperkalemic effect: Canagliflozin, Heparin, Eplerenone, Nicorandil NSAIDS (also acute renal failure), Tolvaptan,
Trimethoprim
Orthostatic hypotension: Dapoxetine, MAO Inhibitors [except Linezolid, Tedizolid]
First ARB dose hypotension: Loop diuretics, Thiazide diuretics
Other Antihypertensive Agents

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Ciprofloxacin (systemic) (arrhythmogenic effect), Cyclosporine (systemic) (hyperkalemic effect), Drospirenone
(hyperkalemic effect), Duloxetine (orthostatic hypotension), Levodopa (orthostatic hypotension), Risperidone
(hypotensive effect)

Reduces therapeutic effect of ARB:
Methylphenidate, Rifampicin

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects (hyperkalemia) of ARB:
Aliskiren (also hypotensive, and nephrotoxic effects), Potassium Supplements, Drugs that cause Potassium
retention, e.g., Potassium-sparing Diuretics, Spironolactone

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects (hypotensive effect) of the following drugs:
ACE Inhibitors e.g. Enalapril, Amifostine [withhold ARB 24 hours prior to Amifostine administration], Obinutuzumab
[withhold ARB 12 hours prior to Obinutuzumab infusion until 1 hour after the end of the infusion], Ramipril, Rituximab,
Sodium Phosphates (also nephrotoxic effect, specifically acute phosphate nephropathy)

Increases serum concentration of the following drugs:
ACE Inhibitors e.g. Enalapril, Amodiaquine, Lithium, Ramipril [Ramiprilat]

NOTE: Dual blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone system, i.e., ARB and ACEI combination, in patients with
established heart failure, atherosclerotic disease, or diabetes with end-organ damage is associated with higher risk
for hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and disordered renal function, including acute renal failure.

Mechanism of Action

An angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor blocker whose efficacy in hypertension is similar to that of ACE inhibitors, but
is associated with a lower incidence of side-effects, such as dry cough and angioedema.

Page 4 of 5



April 25, 2026, 1:47:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C in 1st trimester; D in 2nd and 3rd trimesters

Page 5 of 5