April 25, 2026, 1:53:28 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

MANNITOL (OTHER DIURETICS)

Drug Classification

ANATOMICAL

Cardiovascular System

THERAPEUTIC

Diuretics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Diuretics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 20%, 500 mL bottle (Rx)

IV › 20%, 250 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 20%, 500 mL bottle (Rx)

Increased intracranial pressure, cerebral edema, by IV injection, ADULT, 0.25–1 g/kg per dose; may repeat every 6–8
hours, as needed; maintain serum osmolality <300–320 mOsm/kg; CHILD, 0.25–1 g/kg per dose; repeat as needed
to maintain serum osmolality <300–320 mOsm/kg; administer over 30–60 minutes. Reduction of intraocular
pressure, by IV injection, ADULT, 0.25–2 g/kg administered over 30–60 minutes 1–1.5 hours prior to surgery; CHILD,
1 to 2 g/kg or 30–60 g/m2 administered over 30–60 minutes 1–1.5 hours prior to surgery. Reduction of intraocular
pressure, traumatic hyphema, by IV injection, ADULT, 1.5 g/kg administered over 45 minutes twice daily for IOP >35
mm Hg; may administer every 8 hours; CHILD, 1.5 g/kg administered over 45 minutes twice daily for IOP >35 mm Hg;
may administer every 8 hours in patients with extremely high pressure.

Administration

IV › 20%, 500 mL bottle (Rx)

Administer by intravenous route. Concentration and rate of administration depends on indication, severity, or
adjusted to urine flow. Inspect for crystals prior to administration. If crystals are present, warm solution to re-
dissolve crystals. Use filter type administration set for infusion solutions greater than or equal to 20%. Do NOT
administer until adequacy of renal function and urine flow is established. Use 1–2 test doses to assess renal
response. NEVER add to whole blood for transfusion or administer through the same set by which blood is being
infused to prevent crenation and agglutination of red blood cells.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:53:28 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Consider initiation at lower end of dosing range.

Small and/ or debilitated patients:
Consider giving 500 mg/kg.

Indications

To reduce cerebral edema; to reduce increased intraocular pressure

NOTE: NOT recommended for the prevention of acute renal failure and/or promotion of diuresis.

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to mannitol or any component of the formulation; severe renal disease (anuria); severe dehydration;
active intracranial bleeding except during craniotomy; progressive heart failure, pulmonary congestion, or renal
dysfunction after administration; severe pulmonary edema or congestion.

Precautions

WARNING: Use caution in patients with underlying renal disease. May be used to reduce the incidence of acute
tubular necrosis when administered prior to revascularization during kidney transplantation.

Carefully monitor fluid balance, electrolytes, renal function, and vital signs during infusion to prevent fluid and
electrolyte imbalance, including circulatory overload and tissue dehydration; Extravasation (vesicant at
concentrations >5%; ensure proper catheter or needle position prior to and during IV infusion); fluid or electrolyte
loss (close medical supervision and dose evaluation are required; adjust dose to avoid dehydration); Nephrotoxicity
(use caution in patients taking other nephrotoxic agents, with sepsis or preexisting renal disease; maintain serum
osmolality less than 320 mOsm/L to minimize adverse effects; discontinue if evidence of acute tubular necrosis
occurs); Cerebral edema; cardiovascular status should also be evaluated; Lactation (use with caution).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Fluid and electrolyte imbalance including circulatory overload and acidosis (large doses), nausea, vomiting,
thirst, headache, dizziness, chills, fever, tachycardia, chest pain, hyponatremia, dehydration, blurred vision, urticaria,
hypotension or hypertension, hypersensitivity reactions, extravasation (leading to edema and skin necrosis),
thrombophlebitis.
Rare: Acute renal failure (large doses)

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:53:28 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Mannitol:
Barbiturates (hypotensive effect)
Brimonidine, topical (hypotensive effect)
MAO Inhibitors (hypotensive effect)
Nicorandil (hypotensive effect)
Pentoxifylline (antihypertensive effect)
Phosphodiesterase-5 Inhibitors (antihypertensive effect)
Prostacyclin Analogues (hypotensive effect)

Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Alfuzosin (hypotensive effect), Other Antihypertensives (hypotensive effect), Herbs with hypertensive properties
(hypotensive effect), Risperidone (hypotensive effect)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Mannitol:
Opioid Analgesics, Other Hypotensive Agents, MAO Inhibitors [except Linezolid, Tedizolid] (orthostatic hypotensive
effect)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Duloxetine (orthostatic hypotensive effect)
Levodopa (orthostatic hypotensive effect)

Reduces therapeutic effect of Mannitol:
Herbs with hypertensive properties (antihypertensive effect)
Methylphenidate (antihypertensive effect)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Aminoglycosides (nephrotoxic effect)
Obinutuzumab [withhold Mannitol 12 hours prior to Obinutuzumab infusion until 1 hour after the end of the infusion]
(hypotensive effect)
Rituximab (hypotensive effect)
Sodium Phosphates (nephrotoxic effect; risk of acute phosphate nephropathy)

Mechanism of Action

A hexahydric alcohol related to mannose that acts as an osmotic agent with little energy value. It is eliminated from
the body before any metabolism can take place. When given parenterally, mannitol raises the osmotic pressure of the
plasma, thus drawing water out of body tissues and producing an osmotic diuresis.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3