April 25, 2026, 1:53:21 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

MANNITOL (I.V. SOLUTIONS PRODUCING OSMOTIC DIURESIS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05BC01

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Producing Osmotic Diuresis

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 20%, 250 mL bottle (Rx)

IV › 20%, 500 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 20%, 250 mL bottle (Rx)

INTRAVENOUS Increased intracranial pressure, cerebral edema: by IV injection, ADULT, 0.25–2 g/kg per dose, may
repeat every 6–8 hours, as needed to maintain a serum osmolality <300-320 mOsm/kg; CHILD, 0.25–1 g/kg per dose
administered over 30–60 minutes, repeat as needed to maintain a serum osmolality <300–320 mOsm/kg. Reduction
of intraocular pressure: by IV injection, ADULT, 0.25–2 g/kg administered over 30–60 minutes 1–1.5 hours prior to
surgery; CHILD, 1 to 2 g/kg or 30–60 g/m2 administered over 30–60 minutes 1–1.5 hours prior to surgery. Reduction
of intraocular pressure, traumatic hyphema: by IV injection, ADULT, 1.5 g/kg administered over 45 minutes twice
daily for IOP >35 mmHg; may administer every 8 hours; CHILD, 1.5 g/kg administered over 45 minutes twice daily for
IOP >35 mmHg; may administer every 8 hours in patients with extremely high pressure.

Administration

IV › 20%, 250 mL bottle (Rx)

For IV administration. Determine concentration and rate of administration based on indication or severity or adjust
to urine flow. Inspect for crystals prior to administration. If crystals are present, re-dissolve by warming solution.
Use filter type administration set for infusion solutions containing ≥20% Mannitol. Do NOT administer until
adequacy of renal function and urine flow is established. Use 1–2 test doses to assess renal response. Do NOT
administer electrolyte¬-free mannitol solutions with blood. NEVER add to whole blood for transfusion or
administer through the same set by which blood is being infused to prevent crenation and agglutination of RBC.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:53:21 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Consider initiation at lower end of dosing range.

Small and/ or debilitated patients:
Consider giving 500 mg/kg.

Indications

To reduce cerebral edema; to reduce increased intraocular pressure; to promote urinary excretion of toxic
substances.

NOTE: NOT recommended to be used for the prevention of acute renal failure and/or promotion of diuresis.

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to mannitol or any component of the formulation; severe renal disease (anuria); severe dehydration;
active intracranial bleeding except during craniotomy; progressive heart failure, pulmonary congestion, or renal
dysfunction after administration; severe pulmonary edema or congestion.

Precautions

WARNING: Use caution in patients with underlying renal disease. May be used to reduce the incidence of acute
tubular necrosis when administered prior to revascularization during kidney transplantation.

Carefully monitor fluid balance, electrolytes, renal function, and vital signs during infusion to prevent fluid and
electrolyte imbalance, including circulatory overload and tissue dehydration; Extravasation (vesicant at
concentrations >5%; ensure proper catheter or needle position prior to and during IV infusion); fluid or electrolyte
loss (close medical supervision and dose evaluation are required; adjust dose to avoid dehydration); Nephrotoxicity
(use caution in patients taking other nephrotoxic agents, with sepsis or preexisting renal disease; maintain serum
osmolality less than 320 mOsm/L to minimize adverse effects; discontinue if evidence of acute tubular necrosis
occurs); Cerebral edema; cardiovascular status should also be evaluated; Lactation (use with caution).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Fluid and electrolyte imbalance including circulatory overload and acidosis (large doses), nausea, vomiting,
thirst, headache, dizziness, chills, fever, tachycardia, chest pain, hyponatremia, dehydration, blurred vision, urticaria,
hypotension or hypertension, hypersensitivity reactions, extravasation (leading to edema and skin necrosis),
thrombophlebitis.
Rare: Acute renal failure (large doses)

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:53:21 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Mannitol:
Barbiturates (hypotensive effect)
Brimonidine, topical (hypotensive effect)
MAO Inhibitors (hypotensive effect)
Nicorandil (hypotensive effect)
Pentoxifylline (antihypertensive effect)
Phosphodiesterase-5 Inhibitors (antihypertensive effect)
Prostacyclin Analogues (hypotensive effect)

Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Alfuzosin (hypotensive effect), Other Antihypertensives (hypotensive effect), Herbs with hypertensive properties
(hypotensive effect), Risperidone (hypotensive effect)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Mannitol:
Opioid Analgesics, Other Hypotensive Agents, MAO Inhibitors [except Linezolid, Tedizolid] (orthostatic hypotensive
effect)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Duloxetine (orthostatic hypotensive effect)
Levodopa (orthostatic hypotensive effect)

Reduces therapeutic effect of Mannitol:
Herbs with hypertensive properties (antihypertensive effect)
Methylphenidate (antihypertensive effect)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Aminoglycosides (nephrotoxic effect)
Obinutuzumab [withhold Mannitol 12 hours prior to Obinutuzumab infusion until 1 hour after the end of the infusion]
(hypotensive effect)
Rituximab (hypotensive effect)
Sodium Phosphates (nephrotoxic effect; risk of acute phosphate nephropathy)

Mechanism of Action

A hexahydric alcohol related to mannose that acts as an osmotic agent with little energy value. When given
parenterally, it raises the osmotic pressure of the plasma, thus drawing water out of body tissues and producing an
osmotic diuresis.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3