April 25, 2026, 1:58:55 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

MERCAPTOPURINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

L01BB02

ANATOMICAL

Antineoplastic and Immunomodulating Agents

THERAPEUTIC

Antineoplastic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antimetabolites

CHEMICAL CLASS

Purine Analogues

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

50 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

50 mg tablet (Rx)

Acute lymphocytic leukemia, maintenance, by mouth, ADULT and CHILD, 50 – 75 mg/m2 once daily in conjunction
with methotrexate (evening schedule recommended), continue based on blood counts. Depending upon the
protocol used based on risk stratification in acute lymphoblastic leukemia, dose in maintenance phase for children
varies between 50–75 mg/m2 orally.

Administration

50 mg tablet (Rx)

Administer preferably on an empty stomach, 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals.

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 1:58:55 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Initiate treatment at the low end of dosing range due to renal decline with age.

Renal Impairment:
Administer at the low end of the dosing range or increase dosing interval to every 36–48 hours to avoid accumulation.

Renal Impairment in Children:
For CrCl=50 mL/minute/1.73 m2, pediatric patients receiving hemodialysis, continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis
(CAPD), or continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT), administer every 48 hours. Some renal adverse effects may
be minimized with hydration and prophylactic anti-hyperuricemic therapy.

Hepatic impairment:
Administer at the low end of the dosing range with close monitoring for toxicity.

NUDT15 Genetic Variation:
For patients homozygous for either TPMT or NUDT15 enzyme defect (or heterozygous for both), dose reduction of
=50% may be required.

TPMT Deficiency:
For patients with homozygous TPMT deficiency, i.e. little or no TPMT activity, reduce initial dose of mercaptopurine to
10%, with further adjustments based on the occurrence of myelotoxicity.
For patients with heterozygous TPMT deficiency, i.e. low or intermediate TPMT activity, usual dose may be tolerated
but reduce dose as necessary.

Concomitant use of Allopurinol:
Administer 25–33% of the usual dose to avoid severe myelotoxicity.

Indications

First-line maintenance therapy in conjunction with methotrexate for the maintenance of drug-induced remission in
adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 1:58:55 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Patients whose disease showed prior resistance to mercaptopurine

Precautions

WARNING: Discontinued temporarily at the first sign of an unexpected abnormally large or rapid decrease in any of
the formed elements of the blood that is not attributable to disease or another drug. Decrease dose or discontinue
use according to severity and rapidity of hematologic effects. Discontinue permanently if deterioration of liver
function tests, jaundice, hepatomegaly, anorexia with tenderness in the right hypochondrion, or other evidence of
toxic hepatitis or biliary stasis occurs, until the exact etiology is determined. Avoid using the terms “6-
mercaptopurine” or “6-MP” as use of these terms has been associated with six-fold overdoses.

WARNING: Hazardous agent. Use appropriate precautions for handling and disposal.

Hematologic effects (e.g. anemia, leukemia, thrombocytopenia, or any combination of; consider bone marrow
examination to distinguish between leukemia progression, resistance to therapy, or marrow hypoplasia induced by
mercaptopurine).
Hepatic effects (hepatotoxicity manifested by rapid-onset jaundice, cholestasis, ascites, hepatic encephalopathy,
elevated hepatic enzyme concentrations, possibly fatal hepatic necrosis, severe fibrosis, anorexia, diarrhea; monitor
hepatic function weekly with initiation, then monthly, or more frequently as needed).
Immunosuppression (lethargy and confusion following infection; common signs of infection, e.g. fever and
leukocytosis may not occur).
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders (hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma has been reported).
Elderly (increased risk of toxicity).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Anorexia, bone marrow depression (onset: 7-10 days; nadir: 14 days; recovery: 21 days), diarrhea,
hyperbilirubinemia, hyperpigmentation, hyperuricemia, malaise, nausea (minimal), oral lesion, pancreatitis, skin rash,
urticaria, vomiting

Frequency Not Defined: Alopecia, anemia, ascites, cholestasis, granulocytopenia, hemorrhage, hepatic
encephalopathy, hepatic fibrosis, hepatic injury, drug fever, hepatomegaly, hepatosplenic T-cell lymphomas,
hepatotoxicity, hepatic necrosis, immunosuppression, intrahepatic cholestasis, infection, jaundice,
leukopenia,lymphocytopenia, metastases, mucostasis, renal toxicity, neutropenia, oligospermia, pulmonary fibrosis,
spruelike symptoms, stomach pain, thrombocytopenia, toxic hepatitis, ulcerative bowel lesion, uricosuria

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 1:58:55 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Mercaptopurine: Sulfamethoxazole (myelosuppressive effect), Trastuzumab
(neutropenic effect), Trimethoprim (myelosuppressive effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Mercaptopurine: 5-ASA Derivatives, e.g. Mesalamine, Olsalazine,
Sulfasalazine (hematologic toxicity), Denosumab (serious infections), Doxorubicin (hepatotoxicity)
Reduces diagnostic effect of Coccidioides immitis Skin Test
Reduces therapeutic effect of Vitamin K Antagonists, e.g. Warfarin (anticoagulant effect)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Mercaptopurine: Azathioprine (profound myelosuppression), Roflumilast
(immunosuppressive effect), Tofacitinib (immunosuppressive effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Mercaptopurine: Dipyrone (agranulocytosis, pancytopenia),
Pimecrolimus, Tacrolimus (Topical)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Clozapine (agranulocytosis), Leflunomide
(hematologic toxicity such as pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, and/or thrombocytopenia), Natalizumab (concurrent
infection)
Increases serum concentration of Mercaptopurine by inhibiting its metabolism: Allopurinol, Febuxostat
Reduces therapeutic effect of Mercaptopurine: Echinacea
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: BCG (Intravesical), Vaccines (live virus vaccines may progress to
infection)

Mechanism of Action

A purine antagonist that acts as a false metabolite in DNA and RNA syntheses, thereby inhibiting these processes. It
is most active against cells in the S phase of the cell cycle.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 4 of 4