April 25, 2026, 1:59:28 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

MESNA (SODIUM-2-MERCAPTOETHANESULPHONATE)
(Adjuncts to Antineoplastic Chemotherapy)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

V03AF01

ANATOMICAL

Antineoplastic and Immunomodulating Agents

THERAPEUTIC

Antineoplastic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Adjuncts to Antineoplastic Chemotherapy

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 100 mg/mL, 4 mL ampule (Rx)

IV › 4 mL ampule (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 100 mg/mL, 4 mL ampule (Rx)

Prevention of cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis, standard dose ifosfamide, by IV
bolus, ADULT, 20% of ifosfamide dose given for 3 doses at hour 0, at hour 4, and at hour 8 after ifosfamide (total
daily mesna dose is 60% of the ifosfamide dose); CHILD, intravenous injection for 15-30 minutes at 20% of the
simultaneously administered cyclophosphamide/ifosfamide on a weight for weight basis (w/w). The same dose is
repeated after 4 and 8 hours. The total dose of mesna is 60% (w/w) of cyclophosphamide/ifosfamide dose. This is
repeated on each occasion that the cytotoxic agents are used. NOTE: Repeat mesna dosing schedule each day
ifosfamide is received. Adjust mesna dose based on ifosfamide dose to maintain the mesna-to-ifosfamide ratio.

Administration

IV › 100 mg/mL, 4 mL ampule (Rx)

Administer as an IV bolus. Refer to specific protocol for administration rate or details. Maintain adequate hydration
and urinary output during ifosfamide treatment.

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:59:28 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Preventive agent for cyclophosphamide/ifosfamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis

Contraindications

NOT indicated to reduce the risk of hematuria due to other conditions such as thrombocytopenia

Precautions

WARNING: Hazardous agent. Use appropriate precautions for handling and disposal.

Anaphylaxis or hypersensitivity reactions (watch out for fever, hypotension, tachycardia, acute renal impairment,
hypoxia, respiratory distress, urticaria, angioedema, signs of disseminated intravascular coagulation, hematologic
abnormalities, nausea, vomiting, arthralgia; monitor for signs or symptoms of reactions; may require
discontinuation).

Dermatologic toxicity (e.g. rash, pruritus, urticaria, erythema, burning sensation, angioedema, periorbital edema,
flushing, and stomatitis; reactions consistent with SJS or TEN have been reported).

Hematuria (monitor urine for hematuria; severe hematuria despite utilization of mesna may require ifosfamide dose
reduction or discontinuation; examine morning urine specimen for hematuria prior to ifosfamide or
cyclophosphamide treatment).

Ifosfamide or cyclophosphamide toxicities (intended for the prevention of hemorrhagic cystitis and will not prevent
or alleviate other toxicities associated with ifosfamide or cyclophosphamide).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Anorexia, arthralgia, conjunctivitis, back pain, constipation, cough, diarrhea, dizziness, fever, flatulence,
flu-like syndrome, flushing, headache, hyperesthesia, rash, injection site reactions, nausea, pharyngitis, rhinitis,
rigors, somnolence, vomiting

Less Common: Allergic reaction, anaphylactic reaction, hypersensitivity, hypertension, injection site erythema,
hypotension, injection site pain, limb pain, malaise, myalgia, platelets decreased, ST-segment increased, tachycardia,
tachypnea

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 1:59:28 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

No information found

TEST INTERACTIONS.
May produce false-positive results for urinary ketones with nitroprusside-based urine tests, including dipstick tests
May produce falsely low creatinine kinase levels by interfering with enzymatic creatinine kinase activity tests, which
use thiol compounds
May produce false-positive results for ascorbic acid with Tillman’s reagent-based urine screening tests for ascorbic
acid

Mechanism of Action

Mesna provides a free thiol group which binds to and inactivates acrolein, the urotoxic metabolite of ifosfamide and
cyclophosphamide.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 3 of 3