April 25, 2026, 2:01:32 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

METHYLPHENIDATE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N06BA04 

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psychoanaleptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Psychotimulants, Agents Used for Adhd and Nootropics

CHEMICAL CLASS

Centrally Acting Sympathomimetics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 10 mg Tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 18 mg Modified Release (MR) tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 27 mg Modified Release (MR) tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 36 mg Modified Release (MR) tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 20 mg Modified Release (MR) capsule (Rx)

Dosage

Administration

Indications

Attention deficit hyperactive disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 2:01:32 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Extreme anxiety or agitation, motor tics or Tourette’s syndrome, family history of Tourette’s syndrome or tics,
glaucoma, structural cardiac abnormalities, advanced atherosclerosis, symptomatic cardiovascular disease,
moderate to severe hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart failure, recent myocardial infarction, hyperthyroidism
and thyrotoxicosis, gastrointestinal obstruction or severe GI narrowing (specific for Concerta formulation), history of
substance use disorders.

Precautions

The use of methylphenidate-containing products and amphetamines have a high potential for abuse and
dependence. Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing, and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on
therapy. Long- term abusive use can lead to marked tolerance and psychological dependence with varying degrees
of abnormal behavior. Frank psychotic episodes can occur, especially with parenteral abuse. Methylphenidate
requires an S-2 license for physicians to be able to prescribe it and an S- 1 license with a triplicate prescription for
pharmacists to dispense it.

Monotherapy in service users/patients with bipolar disorder should be avoided. Patients presenting with depressive
symptoms should be screened for bipolar disorder. Methylphenidate monotherapy is not FDA approved for the
treatment of bipolar depression.

Caution operating hazardous machinery or driving.

Take caution in switching formulations of methylphenidate, as bioequivalence does not
automatically translate into clinical equivalence.

Not an appropriate first-line treatment for depression
or for normal fatigue.

Mechanism of Action

Methylphenidate helps correct neurotransmitter levels for norepinephrine and dopamine synapses in the prefrontal
cortex, which brings prefrontal activity back to optimal levels.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2