April 25, 2026, 2:02:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

METRONIDAZOLE (Imidazole Derivatives)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J01XD01

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antibacterials for Systemic Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Imidazole Derivatives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 250 tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 500 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 125 mg base/5 mL (200 mg/5 mL) (as benzoate) suspension, 60 mL (Rx)

IV › 5 mg/mL, 100 mL vial (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 250 tablet (Rx)

Sepsis, suspect intra-abdominal source, by IV infusion, ADULT, 1 g loading dose then 500 mg every 6 hours or 1 g
every 12 hours. CHILD, 30-50 mg/kg every 6 hours with ampicillin and gentamicin/amikacin for 10-14 days. Brain
abscess in the presence of chronic otitis media, sinusitis, or mastoiditis, by IM injection or IV infusion, CHILD and
ADULT, 7.5 mg/kg every 6 hours or 15 mg/kg every 12 hours with ceftazidime. Brain abscess, no focus or in the
presence of congenital heart disease, CHILD and ADULT, 7.5 mg/kg every 6 hours or 15 mg/kg every 12 hours with
ceftriaxone. Acute gingivitis, oral anaerobes, by mouth, CHILD >12 years old, 30 mg/kg in divided doses every 6
hours with penicillin for 7-10 days; ADULT, 500 mg every 8 hours with penicillin V potassium for 7-10 days. Acute
necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis, oral anaerobes, by mouth, ADULT, 500 mg every 8 hours with penicillin V
potassium for 10 days. Juvenile periodontitis, by mouth, CHILD <8 years old, 50 mg/kg in divided doses every 8
hours for 7 days. Ludwig’s angina, by IV infusion, CHILD, 22.5-40 mg/kg in 3 divided doses with ampicillin-sulbactam
OR penicillin G for 2-3 weeks; ADULT, 500 mg every 6-8 hours with penicillin G for 2-3 weeks. Jugular vein
suppurative phlebitis (Lumierre’s syndrome), by mouth or IV infusion, ADULT, 500 mg every 8 hours with
ceftriaxone.

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:02:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

ORAL › 250 tablet (Rx)

For IV: Infuse intravenously over 30 to 60 minutes. Avoid contact of drug solution with equipment containing
aluminum. For oral: Immediate-release tablets and capsules may be administered with food to minimize stomach
upset. Extended-release tablets should be administered on an empty stomach (1 hour before or 2 hours after
meals); do not split, crush, or chew.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric: Refer to adult dosing

Renal Impairment:
Severe impairment: There are no dosage adjustments provided in the manufacturer’s labeling; metronidazole
metabolites may accumulate; monitor for adverse events.
ESRD requiring dialysis: Metronidazole metabolites may accumulate; monitor for adverse events. Accumulated
metabolites may be rapidly removed by dialysis:
be separated from hemodialysis, consider supplemental dose following hemodialysis.
Peritoneal dialysis (PD): No dosage adjustment necessary.

Hepatic Impairment:
Severe impairment (Child-Pugh class C):
Extended-release tablets: Use is not recommended.
Immediate-release capsules:
Amebiasis: 375 mg 3 times daily
Trichomoniasis: 375 mg once daily
Immediate-release tablets, injection:
Reduce dose by 50%

Indications

Eradication of H. pylori; Treatment of acute intestinal amebiasis (amebic dysentery) and amebic liver abscess;
Treatment of bacterial septicemia;
Treatment (adjunctive therapy) of bone and joint infections;
Treatment of CNS infections, including meningitis and brain abscess;
Treatment of gynecologic infections including endometritis, endomyometritis, tubo-ovarian abscess, or postsurgical
vaginal cuff infection;
Treatment of intra-abdominal infections, including peritonitis, intraabdominal abscess and liver abscess;
Treatment of lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, empyema and lung abscess

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:02:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Precautions

WARNING:
Possibly carcinogenic based on animal data. Unnecessary use should be avoided. Clinical and laboratory monitoring
recommended in course lasting longer than 10 days;
Hepatic impairment and hepatic encephalopathy;
Renal impairment;
Congestive heart failure;
History of blood dyscrasias;
History of CNS disorders and seizures;
Severe neurological disturbances, including aseptic meningitis (may occur within hours of a dose), cerebellar
symptoms, convulsive seizures, encephalopathy, optic
neuropathy, and peripheral neuropathy (usually symmetric and of sensory type) have been reported;
CNS symptoms and CNS lesions are generally reversible within days to weeks of discontinuation of therapy;
peripheral neuropathy symptoms may be prolonged after discontinuation. (Monitor for neurologic symptoms and
discontinue therapy if any abnormal neurologic symptoms occur);
Prolonged use may result in fungal or bacterial superinfection, including C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) and
pseudomembranous colitis;
CDAD has been observed >2 months post-antibiotic treatment.
Candidiasis infection (known or unknown) may be more prominent during metronidazole treatment, antifungal
treatment required.
Pregnancy (avoid use in early pregnancy); lactation (significant amounts excereted in breastmilk; may cause
bitterness in milk)

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Headache, nausea, vaginitis

Less Common: Metallic taste, dizziness, genital pruritus, abdominal pain, diarrhea, xerostomia, dysmenorrhea, urine
abnormality, urinary tract infection, bacterial infection, candidiasis, flu-like symptoms, upper respiratory tract
infection, pharyngitis, sinusitis

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:02:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitory closely with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: BCG Vaccine, Lactobacillus and Estriol, Sodium Picosulfate,
Typhoid Vaccine
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Lithium, Lopinavir, Tipranavir
Enhances therapeutic effect of Vecuronium

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Alcohol (Ethyl), Carbocisteine, Products Containing Propylene Glycol
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects Metronidazole: Disulfiram, Mebendazole, Ritonavir
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: BCG, Cholera Vaccine

Mechanism of Action

These drugs inhibit the biosynthesis of ergosterol, the main sterol in membranes of fungi. These agents also affect
the synthesis of triglycerides and phospholipids leading to an intracellular buildup of toxic concentrations of
hydrogen peroxide, contributing to the deterioration of subcellular organelles and to cell necrosis.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

REMARKS

WHO anti-biotic category: ACCESS

Page 4 of 4