April 25, 2026, 2:03:43 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

MIDAZOLAM (HYPNOTICS AND SEDATIVES)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N05CD08

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psycholeptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Hypnotics and Sedatives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 15 mg tablet (Rx)

IM › IV › 5 mg/mL, 1 mL ampule (Rx)

IM › IV › 5 mg/mL, 2 mL ampule (Rx)

IM › IV › 5 mg/mL, 3 mL ampule (Rx)

Page 1 of 8



April 25, 2026, 2:03:43 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

ORAL › 15 mg tablet (Rx)

NOTE: The dose of midazolam needs to be individualized based on the patient's age, underlying diseases, and
concurrent medications. Consider reducing dose by 20%- 50% in elderly, chronically ill, or debilitated patients and
those receiving opioids or other CNS depressants. Preoperative/preprocedural sedation, by mouth, ADULT<60
years, 7.5-15 mg 30-60 minutes prior to surgery/procedure, by intramuscular injection, ADULT<60 years, 0.07 to 0.08
mg/kg 30-60 minutes prior to surgery/procedure; usual dose: 5 mg, by intravenous infusion, ADULT<60 years, 0.02
to 0.04 mg/kg; repeat every 5 minutes as needed to desired effect or up to 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg. Conscious sedation,
by intravenous infusion, ADULT<60 years, Initial: Some service patients respond to doses as low as 1 mg; no more
than 2.5 mg should be administered over a period of 2 minutes. Additional doses of midazolam may be
administered after a 2-minute waiting period and evaluation of sedation after each dose increment. A total dose
>5 mg is generally notneeded. Maintenance: 25% of dose used to reach sedative effect. ADULT ≥60 years,
debilitated, or chronically ill, Refer to geriatric dosing. Alternate recommendations (American Society for
Gastrointestinal Endoscopy): Initial: 0.5 to 2 mg slow IV over at least 2 minutes; slowly titrate to effect by repeating
doses every 2 to 3 minutes if needed; usual total dose: 2.5 to 5 mg. Anesthesia, by intravenous infusion,
ADULTS<55 years, Induction: Unpremedicated service patients: 0.3 to 0.35 mg/kg over 20-30 seconds; after 2
minutes, may repeat if necessary at 25% of initial dose every 2 minutes, up to a total dose of 0.6 mg/kg in resistant
cases. Premedicated patients: Usual dosage range: 0.05-0.2 mg/kg. Use of 0.2 mg/kg administered over 5 to 10
seconds has been shown to safely produce anesthesia within 30 seconds and is recommended for ASA physical
status P1 and P2 patients. When used with other anesthetic drugs (i.e., coinduction), the dose is <0.1 mg/kg. ASA
physical status >P3 or debilitation: Reduce dose by at least 20%. Maintenance: 0.05 mg/kg as needed, or
continuous infusion 0.015 to 0.06 mg/kg/hour (0.25 to 1 mcg/kg/minute). Sedation in mechanically ventilated
service patients, by intravenous infusion, ADULT, Initial dose: 0.01 to 0.05 mg/kg (~0.5 to 4 mg); may repeat at 5-15
minute intervals until adequate sedation achieved; maintenance infusion: 0.02 to 0.1 mg/kg/hour (0.3 to 1.7
mcg/kg/minute). Titrate to reach desired level of sedation. Titration to maintain a light rather than a deep level of
sedation is recommended unless clinically contraindicated. May consider a trial of daily awakening; if agitated
after discontinuation of drip, then restart at 50% of the previous dose. WARNING: Initial IV dose for healthy adults
should not exceed 2.5 mg. Lower dosages are necessary in patients >60 years of age, debilitated service patients,
and service patients receiving concomitant opiates or other CNS depressants. Titrate initial and subsequent
dosages slowly; administer the appropriate dose over ≥2 minutes and wait an additional 2 or more minutes to fully
evaluate the sedative effect. NOTE: For pediatric patients: The dose of midazolam needs to be individualized
based on the patient's age, underlying diseases, and concurrent medications. Decrease dose (by ~30%) if opioids
or other CNS depressants are administered concomitantly. Children <6 years may require higher doses and closer
monitoring than older children; in children with obesity, calculate dose based on ideal body weight. Conscious
sedation for procedures or preoperative sedation, CHILD≥6 months, Children, and Adolescents ≤16 years: oral
(solution only), 0.25 to 0.5 mg/kg (maximum: 20 mg) as a single dose 20 to 30 minutes prior to procedure. Children
<6 years or less cooperative patients may require as much as 1 mg/kg as a single dose; 0.25 mg/kg may suffice for
children 6-16 years of age or for cooperative patients. Doses of 0.5-0.75 mg/kg administered 20-30 minutes prior
to procedure have also been suggested; however, doses above 0.5 mg/kg typically do not improve the sedative
and anxiolytic effects but increase side effects during recovery. by intramuscular injection, 0.1-0.15 mg/kg 30 to 60
minutes before surgery or procedure; range: 0.05-0.15 mg/kg; doses up to 0.5 mg/kg have been used in more
anxious patients; maximum total dose: 10 mg. Conscious sedation for procedures or preoperative sedation, by
intravenous infusion, CHILD<6 months, Limited information is available in nonintubated infants; dosing
recommendations not clear; infants <6 months are at higher risk for airway obstruction and hypoventilation;
titrate dose in small increments to desired effect. CHILD 6 months-5 years, Initial: 0.05-0.1 mg/kg; total dose of 0.6
mg/kg may be required; maximum total dose: 6 mg, CHILD 6-12 years: Initial: 0.025 to 0.05 mg/kg; total doses of 0.4
mg/kg may be required; maximum total dose: 10 mg, CHILD 12-16 years: Dose as adults; maximum total dose: 10 mg.
Conscious sedation during mechanical ventilation, by intravenous infusion, CHILD<18 years, Loading dose: 0.05 to
0.2 mg/kg, followed by initial continuous infusion: 0.06 to 0.12 mg/kg/hour (1 to 2 mcg/kg/minute). USUAL

Page 2 of 8



April 25, 2026, 2:03:43 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

INFUSION CONCENTRATIONS: Adult: IV infusion: 100 mg in 100 mL (concentration: 1 mg/mL) of D5W or NS.
Pediatric: IV infusion: 0.5 mg/mL or 1 mg/mL. WARNING: Calculate pediatric dosage on a mg/kg basis. Initial dose is
dependent on age, procedure, and route; titrate subsequent dosages slowly.

Administration

ORAL › 15 mg tablet (Rx)

WARNING: For deeply sedated pediatric service patients, an individual other than the clinician performing the
procedure should be dedicated to monitoring the service user/patient throughout the procedure. IM: Give deep IM
into large muscle. IV: Administer by slow IV injection over at least 2 to 5 minutes at a concentration of 1 to 5 mg/mL
or by IV infusion. For induction of anesthesia, administer IV bolus over 5 to 30 seconds. Continuous infusions
should be administered via an infusion pump. Oral: Swallow tablet whole with adequate fluid. Avoid intra-arterial
injection or extravasation of the drug. Do not administer intrathecally or epidurally. It is advisable to keep the
service user/patient supine during intravenous use and throughout the procedure. WARNING: Administer by
direct IV injection as the 1-mg/mL solution or dilute the 1 or 5mg/mL solution to facilitate slower administration.
Rapid IV administration may result in respiratory depression, airway obstruction, and/or respiratory arrest. Do not
administer by rapid IV injection in neonates. Severe hypotension and seizures have been reported following rapid
IV administration, particularly with concomitant administration of fentanyl. DIETARY CONSIDERATIONS: Avoid
grapefruit juice with oral syrup. COMPATIBILITY: Stable in D5NS, D5W, NS; incompatible with LR. Y-site
administration: Compatible: Abciximab, amikacin, amiodarone, anidulafungin, argatroban, atracurium, bivalirudin,
calcium gluconate, caspofungin, cefazolin, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, cisatracurium, clindamycin, digoxin,
diltiazem, doripenem, epinephrine, eptifibatide, erythromycin lactobionate, esmolol, etomidate, famotidine,
fenoldopam, fentanyl, fluconazole, gentamicin, heparin, hetastarch in lactate electrolyte injection (Hextend®),
hydromorphone, insulin (regular), labetalol, linezolid, lorazepam, methadone, metronidazole, milrinone, morphine,
nicardipine, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, norepinephrine, palonosetron, pancuronium, piperacillin, ranitidine,
remifentanil, , theophylline, tirofiban, tobramycin, vancomycin, vecuronium. Incompatible: Albumin, amphotericin
B cholesteryl sulfate complex, ampicillin, bumetanide, butorphanol, cefepime, ceftazidime, cefuroxime,
dexamethasone sodium succinate, drotrecogin alfa, foscarnet, fosphenytoin, furosemide, hydrocortisone sodium
succinate, imipenem/cilastatin, methotrexate, micafungin, nafcillin, sodium bicarbonate, thiopental,
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. Variable (consult detailed reference): Cefotaxime, clonidine, dobutamine,
haloperidol, methylprednisolone sodium succinate, metoclopramide, pantoprazole, potassium chloride, propofol.
Compatibility in syringe: Compatible: Alfentanil, atracurium, atropine, buprenorphine, butorphanol,
chlorpromazine, cimetidine, diphenhydramine, dopamine, droperidol, fentanyl, glycopyrrolate, hydromorphone,
hydroxyzine, ketamine, meperidine, metoclopramide, morphine, nalbuphine, ondansetron, promethazine,
rocuronium, scopolamine, trimethobenzamide. Incompatible: Dimenhydrinate, heparin, pantoprazole,
pentobarbital, prochlorperazine edisylate, ranitidine. Variable (consult detailed reference): Dexamethasone
sodium phosphate, methylprednisolone sodium succinate. See Midazolam under Other Antiepileptics in
Antiepileptics for other information. PREGNANCY CONSIDERATIONS: Hypoglycemia and respiratory problems in
the neonate may occur following exposure late in pregnancy. Neonatal withdrawal symptoms may occur within
days to weeks after birth and “floppy infant syndrome” (which also includes withdrawal symptoms). BREAST-
FEEDING CONSIDERATIONS: Midazolam and hydroxymidazolam can be detected in breast milk. The manufacturer
recommends that caution be exercised when administering midazolam to nursing women. PATIENT ADVICE:
Inform clinicians and pharmacists of existing or contemplated concomitant therapy, including prescription and
OTC drugs, and alcohol consumption. Inform clinician of any breathing problems experienced. Take only as
prescribed; do not increase dosage or duration of therapy unless otherwise instructed by a clinician. Avoid driving
and doing other tasks or actions that needs alertness. Avoid alcohol or other drugs and natural products that slow
down actions. Inform the clinician of any side effect (e.g., feeling sleepy, tired or weak, or memory problems or
loss) experienced with taking the drug. For women, inform clinicians if they are or planning to become pregnant or
plan to breast-feed.

Page 3 of 8



April 25, 2026, 2:03:43 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
NOTE: The dose of midazolam needs to be individualized based on the patient's age, underlying diseases, and
concurrent medications. Consider reducing dose by 20%- 50% in elderly, chronically ill, or debilitated patients and
those receiving opioids or other CNS depressants.

Anesthesia, by intravenous infusion, ADULT >55 years, Induction: Unpremedicated service patients: Initial dose:
0.3 mg/kg; Premedicated service patients: Reduce dose by at least 20%. Maintenance: Refer to adult dosing.

Conscious sedation, by intravenous infusion, ADULT, Initial: 0.5 mg slow IV; give no more than 1.5 mg in a 2 minute
period; if additional titration is needed, give no more than 1 mg over 2 minutes, waiting another 2 or more minutes to
evaluate sedative effect; a total dose of >3.5 mg is rarely necessary.

Preoperative/pre-procedural sedation, ADULT >60 years (without concomitant opioid administration): by
intramuscular injection, 2 to 3 mg (or 0.02 to 0.05 mg/kg) 30 to 60 minutes prior to surgery/procedure; some may only
require 1 mg (or 0.01 mg/kg) if anticipated intensity and duration of sedation is less critical. By mouth, 7.5 mg 30 to 60
minutes prior to surgery/procedure.

Renal Impairment:
Oral: 7.5 mg; consider lower doses as needed.
IV, and Oral (Solution): There are no dosage adjustments provided; however, patients with renal failure receiving a
continuous infusion cannot adequately eliminate the active hydroxylated metabolites (e.g., 1-hydroxymidazolam)
contributing to prolonged sedation sometimes for days after discontinuation. Intermittent hemodialysis:
Supplemental dose is not necessary. Continuous venovenous hemofiltration (CVVH): Unconjugated 1-
hydroxymidazolam not effectively removed; 1-hydroxymidazolamglucuronide effectively removed; sieving
coefficient = 0.45. Peritoneal dialysis: Significant drug removal is unlikely based on physiochemical characteristics.

Hepatic Impairment:
Oral: Mild to moderate impairment: 7.5 mg; consider lower doses as needed. Severe impairment: Use is
contraindicated.
IV, and Oral (solution): Severe hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis): Note: Use with caution in patients with any degree
of hepatic impairment; patients with hepatic encephalopathy likely to be more sensitive to midazolam. Single dose
(e.g., induction): No dosage adjustment recommended; patients with hepatic impairment may be more sensitive
compared to patients without hepatic impairment; anticipate longer duration of action. Multiple dosing or
continuous infusion: Expect longer duration of action and accumulation; based on patient response, dosage
reduction likely to be necessary.

Page 4 of 8



April 25, 2026, 2:03:43 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Sedation in minor surgical or investigative procedures; ICU sedation (continuous infusion); preoperative sedation,
conscious prior to short diagnostics or endoscopic procedures; preoperative anxiolytic; drug-induced amnesia
premedication and sedation, and for induction and maintenance of general anesthesia; moderate sedation prior to
diagnostic or radiographic procedures. Sedation in pediatric patients

WARNING: Use only when adequate treatment
facilities for appropriate management of therapy and complications are available.

NOTE: Midazolam does not have analgesic, antidepressant, or antipsychotic properties. Does not protect against
increases in heart rate or blood pressure during intubation. Should not be used in shock, coma, or acute alcohol
intoxication.

Page 5 of 8



April 25, 2026, 2:03:43 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Intrathecal or epidural injection of parenteral forms containing preservatives (i.e., benzyl alcohol); acute narrow
angle glaucoma; Severe respiratory depression; severe hepatic insufficiency; sleep apnea syndrome; myasthenia
gravis, CNS depression.

Precautions

WARNING: Associated with respiratory depression and respiratory arrest, especially when used for sedation in
noncritical-care settings. Death or hypoxic encephalopathy has resulted when respiratory depression was not
recognized promptly and treated effectively.

Initial doses in debilitated and elderly patients should be conservative; start at the lower end of dosing range.

Do not administer by rapid IV injection in neonates; severe hypotension and seizures have been reported; risk may be
increased with concomitant fentanyl use.

Midazolam 15 mg requires an S-2 license for physicians to be able to prescribe it and an S-1 license with a triplicate
prescription for pharmacists to dispense it.

Cardiac disease; children (particularly if cardiovascular impairment); concentration of midazolam in children
<15kg not to exceed 1 mg/mL.
Debilitated patients (reduce dose) (in children); hypothermia; hypovolemia (hypotension); neonates; airways
obstruction and hypoventilation in children <6 months (monitor respiratory rate and oxygen saturation);
vasocontriction.
Impaired gag reflex.
Renal impairment (use with caution). Respiratory disease (use with caution). Tolerance; withdrawal.
Pregnancy; Lactation (avoid breast-feeding for 24 hours after administration).

Concurrent drug therapy issues:
NOTE: See Drug Interactions Section for further information.

CNS depressants/psychoactive medications
CYP3A4 Inhibitors/Protease inhibitors (consider reducing midazolam dose; is contraindicated with both oral and
parenteral forms of midazolam)

Opioids and skeletal muscle relaxants (CNS depression; avoid)
Elderly/Debilitated patients (start at the lower end of dosing range); fall risk
Obese patients (use with caution; may have prolonged action when discontinued)
Neonates (do not administer by rapid IV injection in neonates; increased risk with concomitant fentanyl use) Benzyl
alcohol and derivatives (potentially fatal toxicity (“gasping syndrome”) in neonates; avoid or use dosage forms
containing benzyl alcohol with caution in neonates.)

MONITORING PARAMETERS: Respiratory and cardiovascular status, blood pressure, blood pressure monitor required
during IV administration. For critically ill patients: Monitor depth of sedation with either the Richmond Agitation-
Sedation Scale (RASS) or Sedation-- Agitation Scale (SAS).

STORAGE/STABILITY: Oral: Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F). Injection: Store at
20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F), excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F). The manufacturer states that

Page 6 of 8



April 25, 2026, 2:03:43 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

midazolam, at a final concentration of 0.5 mg/mL, is stable for up to 24 hours when diluted with D5W or NS. A final
concentration of 1 mg/mL in NS has been documented to be stable for up to 10 days. Admixtures do not require
protection from light for short-term storage.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Decreased tidal volume and/or respiratory rate decrease, apnea; hypotension; drowsiness, oversedation,
impaired recall, agitation, headache, seizurelike activity; nausea, vomiting; pain and local reactions at injection site;
myoclonic jerks (preterm infants); nystagmus; cough; physical and psychological dependence with prolonged use,
hiccups, paradoxical reaction; vital sign fluctuations.

Less Common: Acid taste, agitation, amnesia, bigeminy, bradycardia, bronchospasm, confusion, dyspnea, emergence
delirium, euphoria, excessive salivation, hallucinations, hyperventilation, laryngospasm, PVC, rash, tachycardia,
wheezing, respiratory arrest, cardiac arrest.

Page 7 of 8



April 25, 2026, 2:03:43 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Decrease therapeutic effect of Midazolam: Aminophylline
Anesthetic agents, inhalation (patients who have received midazolam as an induction agent may require reduced
amounts of inhalation agents during maintenance of anesthesia)
Anticonvulsants e.g., carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin; Use with caution; consider dosage adjustments, if
necessary
CCBs e.g., diltiazem, nifedipine, verapamil); use oral or parenteral midazolam with caution; reduce oral midazolam
dosage.
Clozapine (consider therapy modification; consider decreasing the dose of (or possibly discontinuing)
benzodiazepines prior to initiating clozapine)
CNS Depressants
Ketamine
Opiates e.g., fentanyl (use with caution; adjust midazolam dosage appropriately to avoid overdosage) Quinupristin
and Dalfopristin
SSRIs (psychomotor impairment)
Thiopental (induction of anesthesia reduced by about 15% in patients who received preoperative sedation with IM
midazolam)

Enchances the sedative effect of the following drugs: Pramipexole, Ropinirole, Rotigotine

Decrease the therapeutic effect of midazolam: Theophylline derivatives, Yohimbine

Avoid concomitant use with:
FOOD INTERACTIONS: Grapefruit juice may increase serum concentrations of midazolam. Management: Avoid
concurrent use of grapefruit juice with oral midazolam

Mechanism of Action

Midazolam is a short-acting benzodiazepine with general properties similar to those of diazepam, except that it has a
more potent amnestic action. It is mainly used for sedation in minor surgical or investigative procedures and in
intensive care, for premedication, and for induction of general anaesthesia.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 8 of 8