April 25, 2026, 2:04:22 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

MODIFIED FLUID GELATIN (POLYMERISATE OF DEGRADED
SUCCINYLATED GELATIN)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05AA06

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Blood and Related Products

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 3% solution, 500 mL bottle (Rx)

IV INFUSION › 4% solution, 500 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 3% solution, 500 mL bottle (Rx)

NOTE: Determine infusion rate and duration of administration based on individual requirements. Adjust rate and
duration to the current requirement by monitoring the usual circulation parameters. INTRAVENOUS Hypovolemia
or hypotension, prophylaxis: by IV infusion, ADULT, 500–1,000 mL. Mild hypovolemia, treatment: by IV infusion,
ADULT, 500–1,000 mL. Hypovolemia: by IV infusion, ADULT, 500–1000 mL. Severe hypovolemia, treatment: by IV
infusion, ADULT, 1,000–2,000 mL; Severe hypovolemia, emergencies with vital indications: by rapid IV infusion,
ADULT, 500 mL. Hemodilution, isovolemic: by IV infusion, ADULT, not more than 20 mL/kg body weight daily.
Extracorporeal circulation: by IV infusion, ADULT, 500–1,500 mL. NOTE: Infuse the first 20–30 mL slowly under
close observation to allow early recognition of allergic reactions (e.g., anaphylactic, anaphylactoid).

Administration

IV › 3% solution, 500 mL bottle (Rx)

Administer by IV route. Warm solution to body temperature prior to administration by pressure infusion.
Administer by rapid IV infusion under external pressure in emergency situations. Remove all air from containers
with air space before starting the infusion to prevent air embolism during infusion. Do NOT use if solution is not
clear or the container or its closure show visible signs of damage.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 2:04:22 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Prophylaxis and treatment of absolute and relative hypovolemia (e.g., following shock due to hemorrhage or trauma,
perioperative blood losses, burns, sepsis); prophylaxis of hypotension (e.g., with induction of epidural or spinal
anesthesia); hemodilution; extracorporeal circulation (heart-lung machine, hemodialysis).

Contraindications

Hypervolemia; hyperhydration; severe cardiac insufficiency; severe disturbance of blood coagulation.

Precautions

Hypernatremia (use with great caution; additional sodium is administered with modified fluid gelatin); States of
dehydration; Disturbance of blood coagulation; Renal insufficiency; Hepatic impairment.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Less Common: Transient mild nausea or abdominal pain, transient mild rise of body temperature.
Rare: Anaphylactoid reactions, tremor, hypotension, hypertension, wheezing, dyspnea, hypoxia, urticarial reactions,
sweating, chills, pyrexia.

Drug Interactions

Incompatibilities can occur on mixing with other medicaments.

Mechanism of Action

A sterile non-pyrogenic solution for infusion of succinylated gelatin used as colloidal plasma substitutes. They
contain large molecules that do not readily leave the intravascular space where they exert osmotic pressure to
maintain circulatory volume.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

N/A

Page 2 of 2