April 25, 2026, 2:05:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

MORPHINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N02AA01

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Analgesics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Opioids

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 10 mg tablet / capsule (as sulfate) (Rx)

ORAL › 20 mg tablet / capsule (as sulfate) (Rx)

ORAL › 30 mg tablet / capsule (as sulfate) (Rx)

ORAL › 10 mg MR tablet (as sulfate) (Rx)

ORAL › 30 mg MR tablet (as sulfate) (Rx)

ORAL › 60 mg MR tablet (as sulfate) (Rx)

IM › IV › SC › 10 mg/mL (as sulfate), 1 mL ampule (Rx)

IM › IV › SC › 16 mg/mL (as sulfate), 1 mL ampule (Rx)

Page 1 of 5



April 25, 2026, 2:05:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

ORAL › 10 mg tablet / capsule (as sulfate) (Rx)

NOTE: Tailor dosing based on patient's needs, type of pain being treated, route of administration, degree of
tolerance for opioids, age, weight, and medical condition. The optimal analgesic dose varies widely among
patients. Titrate doses to pain relief/prevention. Acute pain, moderate to severe, by mouth, ADULT (opioid naïve),
as immediate-release tablet or capsule, initially 15–30 mg every 4 hours as needed; patients with prior opioid
exposure may require higher initial doses; CHILD >6 months and <50 kg, as immediate-release tablet or capsule,
0.15–0.3 mg/kg every 3–4 hours as needed; if pain is severe, an initial dose of 0.3 mg/kg may be administered; by IM
or SC injection, ADULT (opioid naïve), initially 5–10 mg every 4 hours as needed; usual range, 5–15 mg every 4 hours
as needed; patients with prior opioid exposure may require higher initial doses; CHILD >6 months and <50 kg, 0.1–
0.2 mg/kg; by IV injection, ADULT (opioid naïve), initially 2.5–5 mg every 3–4 hours; patients with prior opioid
exposure may require higher initial doses. [NOTE: Administer 2–3 mg every 5 minutes until pain relief or if
associated sedation, oxygen saturation <95%, or serious adverse event occurs, may be appropriate in treating
acute moderate-to-severe pain in immediate postoperative period or the emergency department; maximum
cumulative dose prompting reevaluation of continued morphine use and/or dose should be included as part of any
medication order intended for short-term use.]; CHILD >6 months and <50 kg, 0.05–0.3 mg/kg every 3–4 hours as
needed, not to exceed 10 mg per dose; by continuous IV or SC infusion, ADULT, 0.8–10 mg/hour; usual range is up
to 80 mg/hour; may administer a loading dose prior to initiating the infusion; ADULT (critically ill patients), usual
range Is 2–30 mg/hour; ADULT (patient-controlled analgesia), usual concentration is 1 mg/mL; usual demand dose
is 1 mg, ranging from 0.5–2.5 mg; lockout interval is 5–10 minutes; CHILD >6 months and <50 kg, initially 10–30
micrograms/kg per hour, titrate as needed to control pain; CHILD >6 months and <50 kg (patient-controlled
analgesia; opioid-naive), consider using lower end of dosing range; usual concentration is 1 mg/mL; usual demand
dose is 0.02 mg/kg per dose ranging from 0.01–0.03 mg/kg per dose; lockout interval is 8–10 minutes; usual basal
rate is 0–0.03 mg/kg per hour. Chronic pain, by mouth, ADULT (opioid-tolerant), as MR tablet, 90–120 mg once daily
at the same time each day; ADULT (opioid naïve), initially 30 mg once daily; adjust in increments =30 mg daily every
3–4 days (maximum dose, 1,600 mg daily).

Administration

ORAL › 10 mg tablet / capsule (as sulfate) (Rx)

For oral administration, swallow MR tablets whole. Do NOT crush, chew, or dissolve to prevent the rapid release of
a potentially fatal dose of morphine. Take consistently with regards to meals. Administration with food may
increase bioavailability. Morphine may cause GI upset. Take with food if GI upset occurs. Avoid alcohol. Do NOT
administer with alcoholic beverages or ethanol-containing prescription or nonprescription products. Establish a
patient's morphine requirement using immediate-release tablets or capsules. Conversion to MR tablets may be
considered when chronic, continuous treatment is required. Reserve the use of higher doses in opioid-tolerant
patients only. Reserve use of MR tablets in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not
tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. When administering by IV
push, dilute with sterile water or NS to a concentration of 1 mg/mL in adults or 0.1–1 mg/mL in children. Administer
slowly over 4–5 minutes. Repeated SC administration causes local tissue irritation, pain, and induration. The use of
IM injections is no longer recommended for repeated administration due to painful administration, variable
absorption, and lag time to peak effect. Do NOT use unless the solution is colorless or pale yellow. Protect from
light. NOTE: Conversion from parenteral to MR tablet. Substantial interpatient variability exists in relative potency.
Therefore, it is safer to underestimate a patient's daily oral morphine requirement and provide breakthrough pain
relief with immediate-release morphine. Consider the parenteral to oral morphine ratio. Parenteral to oral
morphine ratio. Between 2–6 mg of oral morphine may be required for analgesia equivalent to 1 mg of parenteral
morphine. An oral dose 3 times the daily parenteral dose may be sufficient in chronic pain settings.

Page 2 of 5



April 25, 2026, 2:05:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric and Debilitated Patients:
Use with caution. May require reduced doses.

Renal Impairment:
For CrCl 10–50 mL/minute and patients on CRRT, administer 75% of normal dose.
For CrCl <10 mL/minute and patients on peritoneal dialysis, administer 50% of normal dose.

Hepatic Impairment:
Substantial extrahepatic metabolism may occur. In cirrhosis, increases in half-life and AUC may require dose
adjustment.

Indications

[Oral]: Relief of moderate to severe acute and chronic pain for which use of an opioid analgesic is appropriate;
management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which
alternative treatment options are inadequate.

[Injection]: Relief of severe pain, such as MI and severe injuries; relief of dyspnea of acute left ventricular failure and
pulmonary edema; preanesthetic medication; management of pain for extended periods without attendant loss of
motor, sensory, or sympathetic function.

Page 3 of 5



April 25, 2026, 2:05:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

[Oral]: GI obstruction and hypercarbia.

[Injection]: Severe respiratory depression; acute or severe asthma (in an unmonitored setting or without
resuscitative equipment); known or suspected paralytic ileus; presence of infection at infusion site; concomitant
anticoagulant therapy; uncontrolled bleeding diathesis; heart failure due to chronic lung disease; cardiac
arrhythmias; increased intracranial pressure; head injuries; brain tumors; acute alcoholism; deliriums tremens;
seizure disorders; use during labor when a premature birth is anticipated.

NOTE: Some contraindications are product specific. See detailed product prescribing information.

Precautions

WARNING: Risk of overdose. NOT recommended for single-dose IV, IM, or SC administration because of the very large
amount of morphine in the ampule and the associated risk of overdosage.

Naloxone injection and resuscitative equipment should be immediately available for use in case of life-threatening or
intolerable side effects and whenever therapy is being initiated, the reservoir is being refilled, or any manipulation of
the reservoir system is taking place.

Each ampule contains a large amount of a potent narcotic which has been associated with abuse and dependence
among healthcare providers. Due to the limited indications for this product, the risk of overdosage and the risk of its
diversion and abuse, it is recommended that special measures be taken to control this product within the hospital or
clinic, including wastage and access.

Page 4 of 5



April 25, 2026, 2:05:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Circulatory depression, flushing, shock, bradycardia, hypotension, atrial fibrillation, chest pain, edema,
hypertension, palpitation, syncope, tachycardia, vasodilation, dysphonia, physical and psychological dependence,
sedation, drowsiness, dizziness, confusion, amnesia, fever, agitation, anxiety, apathy, apprehension, ataxia, chills,
coma, delirium, depression, dream abnormalities, euphoria, false sense of well-being, hallucination, hypoesthesia,
insomnia, lethargy, malaise, nervousness, restlessness, seizure, slurred speech, somnolence, vertigo, pruritus (dose
related), dry skin, rash, urticaria, antidiuretic hormone release, hypogonadism, gynecomastia, hypokalemia,
hyponatremia, decreased libido, constipation, nausea, vomiting, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, anorexia,
biliary colic, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, flatulence, gastroenteritis, GERD, GI irritation, paralytic ileus, rectal
disorder, taste perversion, weight loss, xerostomia, bladder spasm, dysuria, abnormal ejaculation, impotence,
decreased urination, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, pain at injection site, decreased bone mineral density,
weakness, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, foot drop, gait abnormalities, paresthesia, rigors, skeletal muscle rigidity,
amblyopia, conjunctivitis, tremor, eye pain, vision problems or disturbance, decreased oxygen saturation, oliguria,
asthma, atelectasis, dyspnea, hiccups, pulmonary edema (noncardiogenic), hypoxia, hypercapnia, respiratory
depression, rhinitis, flulike syndrome, diaphoresis, infection, thirst, histamine release, voice alteration, withdrawal
syndrome.

Less Common: Amenorrhea, anaphylaxis, apnea, biliary tract spasm, bronchospasm, blurred vision, cardiac arrest,
decreased cough reflex, dehydration, intestinal obstruction, diplopia, disorientation, hemorrhagic urticaria,
intracranial pressure increased, laryngospasm, menstrual irregularities, miosis, myoclonus, nystagmus, paradoxical
CNS stimulation, respiratory arrest, sepsis, thermal dysregulation, toxic psychoses, urinary tract spasm.

Mechanism of Action

Morpine is a mu receptor agonist in the CNS and PNS. It binds to opioid receptors in the CNS, causing inhibition of
ascending pain pathways, altering the perception of and response to pain, as well as producing generalized CNS
depression.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 5 of 5