April 25, 2026, 2:06:14 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

MUPIROCIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

D06AX09

ANATOMICAL

Dermatologicals

THERAPEUTIC

Antibiotics and Chemotherapeutics for Dermatological Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antibiotics for Topical Use

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

TOPIC › 2% cream, 5 g sachet (Rx)

TOPIC › 2% cream, 15 g tube (Rx)

TOPIC › 2% ointment, 5 g tube (Rx)

TOPIC › 2% ointment, 15 g tube (Rx)

Dosage

TOPIC › 2% cream, 5 g sachet (Rx)

Secondary skin infection, by topical application, ADULT and CHILD ≥3 months, as cream, apply to affected area 3
times daily for up to 10 days; re-evaluate within 7 days if no clinical response. Impetigo, by topical application,
ADULT and CHILD ≥2 months, as ointment, apply to affected area 3 times daily for up to 5–10 days; re-evaluate after
3–5 days if no clinical response.

Administration

TOPIC › 2% cream, 5 g sachet (Rx)

For external use only. NOT for intranasal, ophthalmic, or other mucosal use. Avoid contact with eyes. In case of
accidental contact, rinse well with water. Apply a small amount to the affected area using a cotton swab or gauze
pad. If desired, cover the treated area with gauze dressing. Do NOT apply concurrently with any other lotions,
creams, or ointments.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 2:06:14 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
Use with caution. Some products contain polyethylene glycol, which may be absorbed from open wounds and
damaged skin and secreted by the kidneys.

Indications

Management of impetigo; secondary skin infections (up to 10 cm in length or 100 cm2 in area) due to susceptible
Staphylococcus aureus and Steptococcus pyogenes.

Precautions

WARNING: Prolonged use may result in overgrowth of non-susceptible microorganisms, including fungi.

Extensive burns and wounds; Renal impairment; Local irritation (discontinue use when sensitization or severe local
irritation occurs); Lactation (not known if present in breastmilk, has effects on breastfed child and milk production).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common and Less Common: Burning, stinging, pruritus, pain, rash, erythema, dry skin, tenderness, cellulitis, pain or
bleeding secondary to eczema, secondary wound infection, urticaria, swelling, increased exudates, contact
dermatitis, furunculosis, exfoliative dermatitis
Rare: Systemic reactions (e.g., nausea, headache, dizziness, abdominal pain, ulcerative stomatitis, systemic allergic
reactions)

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Mupirocin:
Chloramphenicol (interferes with antibacterial action of Mupirocin in RNA synthesis)

Mechanism of Action

A bacteriostatic that inhibits protein synthesis of the bacteria by binding to isoleucyl transfer RNA synthetase

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2