April 25, 2026, 2:08:01 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

NALBUPHINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N02AF02

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Analgesics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Opioids

CHEMICAL CLASS

Morphinan Derivatives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › IV › SC › 10 mg/mL (as hydrochloride), 1 mL ampule (Rx)

Dosage

IM / IV / SC › 10 mg/mL (as hydrochloride), 1 mL ampule (Rx)

NOTE: Individualize doses based on severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and
risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. Moderate to severe pain, by IM or SC injection, or by IV infusion,
ADULT, 10 mg every 3-6 hours as needed based on a 70 kg patient; may titrate dose to appropriate effect (maximum
single dose in nonopioid-tolerant patients, 20 mg; maximum daily dose, 160 mg).

Administration

IM / IV / SC › 10 mg/mL (as hydrochloride), 1 mL ampule (Rx)

For IM or SC injection, administer undiluted. For IV infusion, administer undiluted over at least 2–3 minutes. Larger
induction doses should be administered over 10–15 minutes. Inspect visually for particulate matter and
discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. NOTE: When discontinuing therapy,
decrease dose by 25– 50% every 2–4 days. Monitor carefully for signs or symptoms of withdrawal. If patient
displays withdrawal symptoms, increase dose to previous level and then reduce dose more slowly by increasing
interval between dose reductions, decreasing amount of daily dose reduction, or both.

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:08:01 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Initiate therapy with reduced doses and use with caution.

Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
Reduce dose.

Indications

Management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic; supplement to balanced anesthesia;
preoperative and postoperative analgesia; obstetrical analgesia during labor and delivery.

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:08:01 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Significant respiratory depression; acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of
resuscitative equipment; known or suspected GI obstruction, including paralytic ileus.

Precautions

WARNING: Life-threatening respiratory depression. Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression may
occur, particularly when used concomitantly with other opioids or CNS depressants. Monitor for respiratory
depression, especially during initiation of nalbuphine or following a dose increase.

Risks from concomitant use with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants. May result in profound sedation,
respiratory depression, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of nalbuphine and benzodiazepines or
other CNS depressants for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit doses and
durations to the minimum required. Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.

Should be administered by personnel trained in the use of IV anesthetics and the management of the respiratory
effects of potent opioids. Resuscitative and intubation equipment and oxygen should be readily available.

Abuse, misuse, and diversion. Users are exposed to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, potentially leading to
overdose and death. Monitor all patients for development of these behaviors or conditions. Risk for opioid abuse is
increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse, including drug or alcohol abuse or
addiction, or mental illness.

Chronic pulmonary disease (monitor for decreased respiratory drive including apnea); Adrenal insufficiency (monitor
for nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure); Head injury and increased
intracranial pressure (may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries); Renal or hepatic impairment;
Biliary tract surgery (may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi); Myocardial infarction; Cardiovascular effects
(monitor for bradycardia); Cachectic or debilitated patients (life-threatening depression is more likely to occur);

Elderly (life-threatening depression is more likely to occur); Children (safety and effectiveness in patients <18 years
have not been established); Pregnancy (severe fetal bradycardia has been reported when used during labor;
sinusoidal fetal heart rate pattern associated with the use of nalbuphine has been reported); Lactation (monitor
nursing infants for excess sedation and respiratory depression).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Sedation, sweaty or clammy, nausea, vomiting, dizziness or vertigo, dry mouth, headache.

Less Common: Nervousness, restlessness, crying, depression, euphoria, floating, hostility, unusual dreams,
confusion, faintness, dysphoria, feeling of heaviness, hallucinations, numbness, tingling, unreality, bradycardia,
tachycardia, hypotension, hypertension, cramps, dyspepsia, bitter taste, depression, dyspnea, asthma, itching,
burning, urticaria, speech difficulty, urinary urgency, blurred vision, flushing and warmth, anaphylactic or
anaphylactoid and other serious hypersensitivity reactions.

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:08:01 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Butorphanol: Amphetamines (analgesic effect)
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Pramipexole, Ropinirole, Rotigotine (sedative effect); Selective
Modulators (serotonergic effect)
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Buprenorphine; Prokinetics
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Buprenorphine (opioid withdrawal); Desmopressin;
Diuretics; Ramosetron (constipating effect); Selective Modulators (serotonin syndrome); SSRIs (psychomotor
impairment)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Butorphanol: Anticholinergic Agents (constipation and urinary
retention); CNS Depressants; Rufinamide (sleepiness and dizziness); Succinylcholine (bradycardic effect)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Butorphanol: Nalmefene; Naltrexone; Other Opioid Analgesics [except
Buprenorphine, Butorphanol, Nalbuphine, Pentazocine]

Mechanism of Action

Nalbuphine is a synthetic morphine opioid agonistantagonist analgesic and a phenanthrene derivative that is a
potent analgesic essentially equivalent to morphine on a milligram basis and may produce the same degree of
respiratory depression.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 4 of 4