April 25, 2026, 2:08:30 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

NALIDIXIC ACID

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J01MB02

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antibacterials for Systemic Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Quinolone

CHEMICAL CLASS

First-Generation Quinolones (Non-Fluorinated)

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 500 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 250 mg/5 mL suspension, 60 mL (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 500 mg tablet (Rx)

Shigellosis, by mouth, ADULT, 1 g every 6 hours for 5 days; CHILD ≥3 months, 15 mg/kg (maximum 1 g) every 6 hours
for 5 days

Administration

ORAL › 500 mg tablet (Rx)

Can be taken with or without meals. Patients should be advised to drink fluids liberally and not take antacids.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function.

Renal Impairment:
The normal dosage of nalidixic acid may be employed in patients with creatinine clearance more than 20 mL/minute.
Dosage should be halved in patients with creatinine clearance 20 mL/minute or less.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:08:30 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Treatment of acute or chronic urinary tract and gastrointestinal tract infections caused by susceptible gram-
negative organisms.

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to any quinolones, children under 3 months old and pregnant women.

Precautions

WARNING:
May cause toxic psychosis, convulsions, increased intracranial pressure, or metabolic acidosis.
Use with caution in patients with known or suspected CNS disorders e.g cerebral arteriosclerosis or epilepsy, or
other factors which predispose seizures Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactoid) reactions,
some following the first dose, have been reported in patients receiving quinolone therapy.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Nausea and vomiting.

Less Common:
Visual disturbances, headache, rashes, eosinophilia, and photosensitivity.

Rare: Hepatic and renal disturbances.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:08:30 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitory closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Warfarin
Reduces therapeutic effect of Nalidixic Acid:
Probenecid
Reduces absorption of Nalidixic Acid:
Antacids
Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Melphalan
Increases serum concentration of Cyclosporine

Mechanism of Action

Quinolones are broad-spectrum antibacterial agents. They act by blocking bacterial DNA synthesis by inhibiting
bacterial topoisomerase II and topoisomerase IV.
Inhibition of topoisomerase II prevents the relaxation of positively supercoiled DNA while inhibition of
topoisomerase IV interferes with separation of replicated chromosomal DNA.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3