April 24, 2026, 11:19:27 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

NALOXONE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

V03AB15

ANATOMICAL

Various

THERAPEUTIC

All Other Therapeutic Products

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Specific Antidotes

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › IV › SC › 400 micrograms/mL (as hydrochloride), 1 mL ampule (Rx)

Dosage

IM / IV / SC › 400 micrograms/mL (as hydrochloride), 1 mL ampule (Rx)

Opioid overdose (with standard ACLS protocols), by IV, IM, or SQ injection, ADULT, initially 0.4–2 mg, may need to
repeat doses every 2–3 minutes; ADOLESCENT, INFANT, and CHILD ≥5 years or >20 kg, 2 mg; if no response, repeat
every 2 to 3 minutes; ADOLESCENT, CHILD <5 years or ≤20 kg, and INFANT, 0.1 mg/kg per dose (maximum dose, 2
mg), repeat every 2–3 minutes if needed. [NOTE: After reversal, re-administration of dose(s) may be needed at a
later interval (i.e., 20–60 minutes) depending on type or duration of opioid. If no response is observed after 10 mg
total, consider other causes of respiratory depression]. Reversal of respiratory depression with therapeutic
opioid doses, by IV, IM, or SQ injection, ADULT, initially 0.04– 0.4 mg, may repeat until desired response achieved;
ADOLESCENT, CHILD, and INFANT, 0.001–0.015 mg/kg per dose; may be repeated as needed. [NOTE: If desired
response is not observed after 0.8 mg total, consider other causes of respiratory depression]. Reversal of
respiratory depression in opioid-dependent patients being treated for cancer pain, by slow IV push, ADULT, 40–80
micrograms every 30 to 60 seconds until improvement in symptoms. [NOTE: If no response is observed after total
naloxone dose 1 mg, consider other causes of respiratory depression.] Postoperative reversal, by IV injection,
ADULT, 0.1–0.2 mg every 2–3 minutes until desired response (adequate ventilation and alertness without
significant pain); repeat doses may be needed within 1– to 2-hour intervals depending on type, dose, and timing of
the last dose of opioid administered; ADOLESCENT, CHILD, and INFANT, 0.005–0.01 mg/kg, may repeat every 2–3
minutes as needed based on response (adequate ventilation without significant pain).

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:19:27 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IM / IV / SC › 400 micrograms/mL (as hydrochloride), 1 mL ampule (Rx)

IV administration is the preferred route. Administer via IV push over 30 seconds as undiluted preparation or via
slow IV push as diluted preparation by diluting 0.4 mg (1 mL) ampule with 9 mL of normal saline for a total volume of
10 mL to achieve a concentration of 0.04 mg/mL. May also be administered via continuous IV infusion a diluted
preparation by diluting 2 mg in 500 mL of D5W or normal saline to make 4 micrograms/mL. May administer by IM or
SQ route if unable to obtain IV access.

Indications

For the complete or partial reversal of opioid
depression (including respiratory depression) induced by
natural and synthetic opioids (e.g., propoxyphene,
methadone, nalbuphine, butorphanol, pentazocine)

Precautions

Acute opioid withdrawal (e.g. precipitate acute withdrawal,
unmask pain);
Cardiovascular disease (e.g. pulmonary edema,
cardiovascular instability, including ventricular
fibrillation);
Seizures (use with caution);
Pregnancy (use with caution in mild-to-moderate
hypertension during labor; severe hypertension may
occur);
Lactation (consider opioid concentrations in the milk of a
breastfeeding mother and potential transfer of the
opioid to the infant).

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:19:27 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

NOTE: Adverse reactions are related to reversing
dependency and precipitating withdrawal. Withdrawal
symptoms are the result of sympathetic excess.

Common:
Cardiac arrest, fever, flushing, hypotension,
hypertension, tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation
ventricular tachycardia, agitation, hallucination, crying
(excessive; neonates), encephalopathy, irritability,
nervousness, restlessness, seizure (neonates),
tremulousness, abdominal cramps, coma, diarrhea,
nausea, vomiting, injection site reaction, ache,
hyperreflexia (neonates), paresthesia, piloerection,
tremor, weakness, dyspnea, hypoxia, pulmonary edema,
respiratory depression, rhinorrhea, sneezing,
diaphoresis, hot flashes, shivering, yawning

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Naloxone:
Methylnaltrexone (opioid withdrawal)

Mechanism of Action

A pure opioid antagonist that competes and displaces opioids at opioid receptor sites.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B / C (product-specific)

Page 3 of 3