April 25, 2026, 2:09:42 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

NEOMYCIN + POLYMYXIN B + FLUOCINOLONE ACETONIDE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

Not available

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Otologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Corticosteroids and Antiinfectives In Combination

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OTHER › 3.5 mg neomycin (as sulfate) + 10,000 units polymyxin B (as sulfate) + 0.025% fluocinolone acetonide per
mL ear drops solution, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

OTHER › 3.5 mg neomycin (as sulfate) + 10,000 units polymyxin B (as sulfate) + 0.025% fluocinolone acetonide per mL ear
drops solution, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Ear infections, into the ear, ADULT and CHILD, instill 3–4 drops 2–4 times daily. [NOTE: Limit treatment to 5–7 days.
Refer to ENT specialist if discharge continues].

Administration

OTHER › 3.5 mg neomycin (as sulfate) + 10,000 units polymyxin B (as sulfate) + 0.025% fluocinolone acetonide per mL ear
drops solution, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Warm container in cup of warm water to reduce viscosity. The ears should be clean and dry. Lie down with the
affected ear upward. Gentle massage or pressure on the tragus (cartilage flap over the opening of the ear canal) to
aid penetration of the drops. Method of drug application based on degree of swelling in ear canal: For minimal
swelling, instill drops directly into the ear canal then remain in position for a few minutes. For swelling that
narrows the ear canal, saturate a sponge wick or ribbon gauze with drops and insert into the ear canal; review daily
until swelling settles.

Indications

Otitis externa, with or without associated otitis media; adjunct therapy to acute or chronic dermatoses of the
external ear; chronic suppurative otitis media; draining mastoidectomy cavities; otorrhea from ventilation tubes.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 2:09:42 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Primary infection of the skin caused by bacteria, fungi, acne rosacea, perioral dermatitis; patients with herpes
simplex, vaccinia, and varicella; untreated fungal or viral infections; pregnancy (first trimester).

Precautions

Ear infections, into the ear, ADULT and CHILD, instill 3–4 drops 2–4 times daily. [NOTE: Limit treatment to 5–7 days.
Refer to ENT specialist if discharge continues].

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Allergic dermatitis

Less Common:
Acneiform eruptions, burning, decreased hearing, dryness, ear pain, folliculitis, fungal overgrowth inside ear canal,
hypertrichosis, hypopigmentation, irritation, itching, miliaria, perioral dermatitis, secondary infections, tinnitus.

Rare:
Inner ear damage

Drug Interactions

No information found

Mechanism of Action

A combination of a corticosteroid and anti-infectives (aminoglycoside and basic peptides), which is used in treating
ear diseases.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2