April 25, 2026, 2:10:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

NEPAFENAC

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01BC10

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antiinflammatory Agents

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › 1 mg/mL eye suspension, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › 1 mg/mL eye suspension, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Cataract surgery, into the eye, ADULT, instill 1 drop into the affected eye(s) 3 times daily beginning 1 day prior to
cataract surgery, continued on the day of surgery and through the first 2 weeks post-op.

Administration

OPHTHALM › 1 mg/mL eye suspension, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Shake well prior to use. If concomitant topical ophthalmic medication is being used, administer medications at
least 5 minutes apart. Do NOT touch tip of container to eye. Do NOT use contact lenses during treatment.

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Indications

Treatment of pain and inflammation associated
with cataract surgery.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 2:10:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to nepafenac, NSAIDs, or any component of the formulation.

Precautions

Cross-sensitivity;
Bleeding time;
Delayed healing;
Complicated ocular surgeries, corneal denervation, corneal epithelial defects, diabetes mellitus, ocular surface
diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, or repeat ocular surgeries within a short period of time (increases risk for corneal
adverse events, which may become sight threatening).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Capsular opacity, decreased visual acuity, foreign body sensation, increased intraocular pressure, sticky sensation,
conjunctival edema, corneal edema, dry eye, lid margin crusting, ocular discomfort, ocular hyperemia, ocular pain,
ocular pruritus, photophobia, tearing, vitreous detachment, headache, hypertension, nausea, vomiting, sinusitis.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Nepafenac:
Steroids, Topical (healing problems)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of drugs that
prolong bleeding time (hemorrhage)

Mechanism of Action

A nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory and analgesic prodrug. It penetrates the cornea and is converted to amfenac by
ocular tissue hydrolases. Amfenac inhibits the action of prostaglandin H synthase resulting to inhibited
prostaglandin production.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2