April 25, 2026, 2:10:41 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

NICOTINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N07BA01

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Other Nervous System Drugs

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Drugs Used in Addictive Disorders

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 1 mg Pastille (Rx)

ORAL › 2 mg Pastille (Rx)

ORAL › 1 mg Gum (Rx)

ORAL › 2 mg Gum (Rx)

T-DERMAL › 7 mg transdermal patch (Rx)

T-DERMAL › 14 mg transdermal patch (Rx)

T-DERMAL › 21 mg transdermal patch (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 1 mg Pastille (Rx)

Tobacco dependence, ADULT, : 2 mg as required, chew 1 piece of gum when the urge to smoke occurs or to
prevent cravings, if attempting smoking cessation, treatment should continue for 3 months before reducing the
dose 1 to 12 weeks: Chew 1 gum every 1-2 hours or when there is an urge to smoke. maximum of 24 pcs. per day.
Week 12 onwards: Start gradual tampering until you can fully quit smoking. Stop completely when you can tolerate
1-2 gums per day

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:10:41 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

ORAL › 1 mg Pastille (Rx)

Chewing-gum results in relatively slow absorption. Food and acidic drinks should be avoided 15 min before and
during use.

Dose Adjustment

Seek for a doctor's advice before using nicotine when taking prescription medicine for asthma or depression.

Indications

Aid to decrease withdrawal symptoms triggered by tobacco cessation (smoking and smokeless tobacco products)

Contraindications

Do not use when using other nicotine containing products

Precautions

Caution should be exercised by people with acute symptoms of cardiovascular disease (serious arrhythmia or
serious or worsening angina pectoris) or recent cardiac events (the 2-week post-myocardial infarction period), who
should use nicotine replacement Therapy only on the advice of a health professional.

With oral use gastritis (can be aggravated by swallowed nicotine).
Gum may also stick to and damage dentures. oesophagitis (can be aggravated by swallowed nicotine). peptic ulcers
(can be aggravated by swallowed nicotine)

Adverse Drug Reactions

Acute to severe nicotine poisoning onset of symptoms:

Nausea, salivation, abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, cold sweat, headache, dizziness, disturbed hearing and vision,
mental confusion, and marked weakness.

Faintness and prostration ensue; the blood pressure falls; breathing is difficult; the pulse is weak, rapid, and
irregular; and collapse may be followed by terminal convulsions.
Death may result within a few minutes from respiratory failure.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:10:41 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

N/A

Mechanism of Action

Nicotine acts on a variety of neuroeffector and chemosensitive sites. This natural liquid alkaloid can both stimulate
and desensitize receptors, making nicotine’s effects complex and unpredictable. The ultimate response of any one
system represents the summation of stimulatory and inhibitory effects of nicotine. Nicotine can increase heart rate
by excitation of sympathetic ganglia or by paralysis of parasympathetic cardiac ganglia, and it can slow heart rate by
paralysis of sympathetic or stimulation of parasympathetic cardiac ganglia. The effects of the drug on the
chemoreceptors of the carotid and aortic bodies and on regions of the CNS also can influence heart rate, as can the
compensatory baroreceptor reflexes resulting from changes in blood pressure caused by nicotine. Finally, nicotine
can stimulate secretion of epinephrine from the adrenal medulla, which accelerates heart rate and raises blood
pressure.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 3 of 3