April 25, 2026, 2:12:06 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

NYSTATIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

G01AA01

ANATOMICAL

Genito Urinary System and Sex Hormones

THERAPEUTIC

Gynecological Antiinfectives And Antiseptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antiinfectives and Antiseptics, Excluding Combinations with Corticosteroids

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

VAGIN › 100,000 units tablet (Rx)

Dosage

VAGIN › 100,000 units tablet (Rx)

Vaginal candidiasis, by vaginal insertion, ADULT, 100,000–200,000 units daily for 14 days or longer. NOTE: For
cutaneous lesions, ointment, gel, cream, or dusting powder having 100,000 units per gram can be applied 2 to 4
times daily.

Administration

VAGIN › 100,000 units tablet (Rx)

For use in the vagina only. Do NOT take by mouth. Wash hands first before and after use. Insert 1 tablet in the
applicator tip. Lie on the back then gently insert applicator high in the vagina and push plunger to release the
tablet. Gently remove the applicator. Wash it well with warm water and soap. Follow course of medication. Do NOT
use in amounts other than what is directed.

Indications

Used in the prophylaxis and treatment of infections caused by Candida, including vulvovaginal candidiasis

NOTE: Diagnosis should be confirmed by KOH smears and/or cultures prior to treatment. Some pathogens that are
also commonly associated with vulvovaginitis like Trichomonas and Haemophilus vaginalis should be ruled out
through adequate laboratory procedures.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 2:12:06 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Precautions

Intravaginal preparations may damage latex contraceptives (an additional contraceptive method is recommended
during treatment);
Pregnancy (check first with a health care professional if pregnant or trying to get pregnant).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Contact dermatitis, ashes, including urticaria, irritation, sensitization, generalized pustular eruptions

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects:
Other vaginal products [consult health care professional]

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Progesterone intravaginal gel (alters progesterone release)

Mechanism of Action

A polyene antifungal obtained from Streptomyces noursei that interfere with the permeability of cell membrane of
fungi, particularly Candida

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

A

Page 2 of 2