April 25, 2026, 2:14:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

OFLOXACIN (ANTIINFECTIVES (OPHTHALMOLOGICALS))

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01AE01

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antiinfectives (Ophthalmologicals)

CHEMICAL CLASS

Fourth-Generation Fluoroquinolones

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › [WATCH] 0.3% eye drops solution, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › [WATCH] 0.3% eye drops solution, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Conjunctivitis, into the eye, ADULT and CHILD ≥1 year, instill 1–2 drops into the affected eye(s) every 2–4 hours for
the first 2 days, then use 4 times daily for an additional 5 days. Corneal ulcer, into the eye, ADULT and CHILD ≥1 year,
instill 1–2 drops every 30 minutes while awake and every 4–6 hours after retiring for the first 2 days; Beginning on
day 3, instill 1–2 drops every hour while awake for 4–6 additional days; Thereafter, 1–2 drops 4 times daily until
clinical cure.

Administration

OPHTHALM › [WATCH] 0.3% eye drops solution, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

For ophthalmic use only. Avoid touching tip of applicator to eye or other surfaces. WARNING: Do NOT use for longer
than 2 weeks at a time.

Dose Adjustment

Dose adjustment is unlikely due to low
systemic absorption.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:14:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Treatment of superficial ocular infections involving the conjunctiva or cornea due to strains of susceptible
organisms.

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to ofloxacin or other
members of the quinolone group.

Precautions

Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis);
Superinfection (e.g., fungal or bacterial superinfection with prolonged use);
Tendon inflammation or rupture;
Elderly (evaluate the patient’s or caregiver’s ability to safely and correctly administer the medication).
Pregnancy and lactation.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common and Less Common:
Dizziness, nausea, blurred vision, burning, chemical conjunctivitis or keratitis, ocular discomfort, eye dryness, ocular
edema, eye pain, foreign body sensation in the eye, itching of the eye, photophobia, redness of the eye, ocular
stinging, tearing of the eye.

Rare:
Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:14:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases serum concentration of Ofloxacin:
Antacids containing Magnesium, Aluminum, or Calcium

Enhances therapeutic effect of Ofloxacin:
Aminoglycosides, e.g., Amikacin, Tobramycin (additive antibacterial activity)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Class IA Antiarrhythmics, e.g., Quinidine, Procainamide (QT interval prolongation), Class III Antiarrhythmics, e.g.,
Sotalol, Amiodarone (QT interval prolongation),
Corticosteroids (severe tendon disorders), Theophylline (theophylline-related adverse effects)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Ofloxacin:
NSAIDs (seizures)

Increases serum concentration of Theophylline

Mechanism of Action

A DNA gyrase inhibitor that interferes with replication, transcription, repair, recombination, and transposition of
bacterial DNA.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3