April 25, 2026, 2:14:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

OLANZAPINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N05AH03

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psycholeptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antipsychotics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 10 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 10 mg orodispersible tablet (ODT) (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (Rx)

Acute mania or mixed mania, by mouth, ADULT and CHILD ≥13 years, as monotherapy, initially 10 to 15 mg once daily,
increase by 5 mg once daily at intervals of not less than 1 week until desired efficacy is reached (maximum dose, 20
mg once daily). Acute mania/mixed mania, by mouth, ADULT and CHILD ≥13 years, as adjunct to lithium or valproate,
initially 10 mg once daily, increase by 5 mg once daily at intervals of not less than 1 week until desired efficacy is
reached (maximum dose, 20 mg once daily). Bipolar I disorder maintenance, by mouth, ADULT, continue therapy at
the lowest effective dose and adjust dose depending on clinical response and tolerability. Depression associated
with bipolar 1 disorder, by mouth, ADULT, in combination with fluoxetine, initially 5 mg once daily in the evening,
slowly titrate dose based on efficacy and tolerability up to a maximum of 12.5 mg once daily in the evening; CHILD
=10 years, initially 2.5 mg once daily in the evening, slowly titrate dose based on efficacy and tolerability.
Schizophrenia, by mouth, ADULT and CHILD ≥13 years, initially 5–10 mg once daily, increase by 5 mg once daily once a
week until desired efficacy is reached (maximum dose, 20 mg once daily). Treatment-resistant depression, by
mouth, ADULT, in combination with fluoxetine, initially 5 mg once daily in the evening, slowly titrate dose based on
efficacy and tolerability (maximum, 12.5 mg once daily in the evening).

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:14:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (Rx)

Olanzapine orodispersible tablet may be placed on the tongue and allowed to dissolve, or dispersed in water,
orange juice, apple juice, milk or coffee. May be taken with or without food. Do NOT discontinue abruptly because
of the possibility of withdrawal and rebound psychosis. Perform discontinuation or cross-titration gradually to
minimize the potential of withdrawal, rebound psychosis, extrapyramidal side effects, cholinergic rebound,
rebound insomnia, and unwanted pregnancy, unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
May tolerate lower doses better.

Hepatic Impairment:
For moderate to severe hepatic impairment, consider initial dose of 5 mg daily. When used in combination with
fluoxetine, limit initial dose to 2.5–5 mg once daily. Increase dose with caution.

Debilitated Patients with a predisposition to Hypotensive reactions, who exhibit a combination of factors that may
result in slower metabolism, e.g., nonsmoking female patients =65 years), or who may be more pharmacodynamically
sensitive to olanzapine:
Initiate at 5 mg once daily, increase dose with caution as clinically indicated.

Indications

Management of schizophrenia; maintaining response in schizophrenia, acute phase schizophrenia; acute agitation
associated with schizophrenia, acute mania or mixed mania; bipolar maintenance; acute agitation associated with
bipolar I mania, bipolar depression; treatment-resistant depression (in combination with fluoxetine).

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:14:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Psychosis in Parkinson’s disease.

Precautions

WARNING: NOT approved for treatment of dementiarelated psychosis (increased risk of death)

Altered cardiac conduction, e.g., life-threatening arrhythmias; orthostatic hypotension; cardiovascular disease;
blood dyscrasias, e.g., leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis; dyslipidemia; hyperglycemia;
hyperprolactinemia (dose-related); Anticholinergic effects, e.g., constipation, xerostomia, blurred vision, urinary
retention; esophageal dysmotility or aspiration; multiorgan hypersensitivity reactions (drug reaction with
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms [DRESS]); neuroleptic malignant syndrome; temperature regulation, e.g.,
impaired core body temperature regulation; cerebrovascular effects; CNS depression; extrapyramidal symptoms,
e.g., dystonic reactions, pseudoparkinsonism, akathisia, and tardive dyskinesia; greater risk for dystonia with
increased doses; greater risk for falls; suicidal ideation; Parkinson disease; seizures; weight gain; hepatic
impairment; renal impairment

Smokers (decreases olanzapine concentration; may require daily doses 30% higher to obtain an equivalent
concentration); Elderly (more susceptible to adverse effects; potentially inappropriate in the elderly; avoid use in
patients =65 years with dementia due to an increased risk of mortality and cerebrovascular accidents, a greater rate
of cognitive decline, and potential to cause or exacerbate SIADH or hyponatremia, unless all nonpharmacologic
options have failed or are not possible or the patient is threatening substantial harm to self or to others); children
(safety of doses >12 mg in combination with doses >50 mg of fluoxetine has not been studied; use in adolescents =13
years of age may result in increased weight gain, sedation, and increases in LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol,
triglycerides, prolactin, and liver transaminase levels).

SKILLED TASKS. May impair ability to perform tasks, which require mentalmachinery. alertness, like driving or
operating

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Arthralgia, hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, increased appetite, malaise, edema.

Less Common: Alopecia, amnesia, bradycardia, epistaxis.

Rare: Hepatitis, pancreatitis, rhabdomyolysis.

NOTE: Patients taking this drug may experience weight gain and/or sedation.

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:14:46 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Antihypertensives [except Guanethidine], CNS Depressants
(sedative effect), QTc-prolonging Agents (QTc-prolonging effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Olanzapine: Methylphenidate, Metoclopramide
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Glucagon (GI adverse effects) Hypotension-
associated Agents (hypotension) Iohexol, Iomeprol, Iopamidol (seizures) Mequitazine (arrhythmogenic effect)
Methylphenidate, Mirabegron Potassium Chloride (ulcerogenic effect) Serotonin Modulators (neuroleptic malignant
syndrome; serotonin syndrome) SSRIs (psychomotor impairment) Topiramate (hyperthermia)
Reduces absorption of Nitroglycerin (decreases dissolution of sublingual nitroglycerin tablets)
Reduces therapeutic effect of Olanzapine: Methylphenidate (antipsychotic and mood-stabilizing actions)
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Phenylephrine, Prokinetics, Secretin, Antidiabetics,
Anticholinergics Methylphenidate (stimulant effect) Dopamine Agonists (antagonism) Guanethidine
(antihypertensive effects)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Other Antipsychotics (increased hospitalization
rates and length of stay; increased mortality; QTc prolongation; torsades de pointes)

Mechanism of Action

Olanzapine is a thienobenzodiazepine structurally related to clozapine. It is more potent and less sedating than
clozapine. It also has low risk for extrapyramidal symptoms, even at high doses. However, it has the greatest known
cardiometabolic risks, because it increases triglyceride levels and promotes insulin resistance.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 4 of 4