April 25, 2026, 2:17:55 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

OXYMETAZOLINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

R01AB07

ANATOMICAL

Respiratory System

THERAPEUTIC

Nasal Preparations

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Decongestants and Other Nasal Preparations for Topical Use

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

TOPIC › 0.05% nasal spray (as hydrochloride), 10 mL bottle (OTC)

TOPIC › 0.05% nasal spray (as hydrochloride), 15 mL bottle (OTC)

TOPIC › 0.025% nasal drops solution (as hydrochloride), 10 mL bottle (OTC)

Dosage

TOPIC › 0.05% nasal spray (as hydrochloride), 10 mL bottle (OTC)

Nasal congestion, into the nostril, ADULT and CHILD ≥6 years, spray 0.05% solution 1–3 times into each nostril
twice daily.

Administration

TOPIC › 0.05% nasal spray (as hydrochloride), 10 mL bottle (OTC)

Do NOT ingest. Keep out of reach of children. Shake well before use. If using for the first time, remove the
protective cap from the tip and prime metered pump by depressing the pump firmly several times. To spray, hold
bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers. Without tilting your head, insert the nozzle
into nostril. Fully depress rim with a firm, even stroke and sniff deeply. Wipe nozzle clean after use. Administer
each dose 10–12 hours apart. Do NOT exceed 2 doses in any 24-hour period. For children under 6 years of age, ask a
doctor prior to administration. Use only as directed. Do NOT use more than directed. Do NOT use for more than 3
days. Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen. Do not share containers with
other persons to prevent the spread of infection

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 2:17:55 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Indications

Temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to common cold, hay fever, upper respiratory allergies

Contraindications

Glaucoma; hyperthyroidism; heart disease, including angina; hypertension; advanced arteriosclerotic conditions;
children <6 years

Precautions

Difficulty in urination secondary to prostate enlargement; heart disease; high blood pressure; thyroid disease;
diabetes mellitus; Lactation

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common and Less Common: Local stinging or burning, sneezing, dryness of mouth and throat, rebound congestion
(prolonged use), headache, insomnia, tachycardia, hypertension, nervousness, nausea, dizziness, palpitation,
arrhythmia

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of MAO Inhibitors e.g. Phenelzine (potentially fatal hypertensive crisis)

Mechanism of Action

A direct-acting sympathomimetic with vasoconstrictor effect on mucosal blood vessels when applied topically,
reducing edema of the nasal mucosa.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2