April 25, 2026, 2:18:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

OXYTOCIN (SYNTHETIC)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

H01BB02

ANATOMICAL

Systemic Hormonal Preparations, Excluding Sex Hormones and Insulins

THERAPEUTIC

Pituitary and Hypothalamic Hormones and Analogues

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Posterior Pituitary Lobe Hormones

CHEMICAL CLASS

Oxytocin and Analogues

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › IV › 5 IU/mL ampule, 1 mL ampule (Rx)

IM › IV › 10 IU/mL ampule, 1 mL ampule (Rx)

Dosage

IM / IV › 5 IU/mL ampule, 1 mL ampule (Rx)

Induction of labor, by IV infusion, ADULT and ADOLESCENT, initially 0.0005–0.001 IU/minute increased in 0.001–
0.002 IU/minute increments at intervals of 30 minutes until up to 3–4 contractions occur every 10 minutes
(maximum rate, 0.02 IU/minute). NOTE: Careful monitoring of fetal heart rate and uterine motility is essential for
dose titration. Discontinue immediately in uterine hyperactivity or fetal distress. Prevention of postpartum
hemorrhage, by IM injection, ADULT and ADOLESCENT, 10 IU when the anterior shoulder is delivered or
immediately after birth. Prevention of postpartum hemorrhage, by slow IM injection, ADULT and ADOLESCENT, 5 IU
when the anterior shoulder is delivered or immediately after birth. Treatment of postpartum hemorrhage, by slow
IV injection, ADULT, 10-40 IU in 1000 mL of IV fluid at a rate sufficient to control uterine atony; ADOLESCENT, 5-10
IU; by IM injection, ADULT and ADOLESCENT, 10 IU, followed in severe cases by a total of 40 IU, by intravenous
infusion, at a rate of 0.02-0.04 IU/minute; this should be started after the placenta is delivered.

Administration

IM / IV › 5 IU/mL ampule, 1 mL ampule (Rx)

For IV bolus injection, administer slowly. Avoid rapid injection due to risk of cardiovascular effects. Avoid bolus IV
injection during labor. For IV infusion, monitor fluid balance to prevent water intoxication. Avoid large volume
infusions and restrict fluid intake to prevent water intoxication and hyponatremia.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:18:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
Use with caution (increased risk of water retention and oxytocin accumulation).

Indications

Prevention and treatment of postpartum and post-abortion hemorrhage; induction and augmentation of labor

Contraindications

Hypertonic uterine contractions; mechanical obstruction to delivery; fetal distress; any condition where
spontaneous labor or vaginal delivery is inadvisable; major cephalopelvic disproportion

Precautions

Oxytocin-resistant uterine inertia (avoid prolonged administration);
Severe pre-eclamptic toxemia;
Severe cardiovascular disease;
Previous uterine surgery, multiple pregnancy, or >4 previous births;
Induction or enhancement of labor in the presence of borderline cephalopelvic disproportion (avoid use if
significant);
Mild-to-moderate pregnancy-associated hypertension or cardiovascular disease;
Age >35 years;
History of low-uterine segment caesarean section;
Caudal block anesthesia;
Avoid tumultuous labor if fetal death or meconium-stained amniotic fluid

Adverse Drug Reactions

Less Common: Nausea, vomiting
Rare: Anaphylactoid reaction, arrhythmias, ECG changes, flushing, prolonged QT interval, rash, reflex tachycardia,
severe (tetanic) uterine spasm and contraction leading to uterine rupture or fetal distress, hypoxia and death,
seizures, transient hypotension, water intoxication

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:18:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs due to enhanced vasopressor effect:
Ephedrine, Epinephrine

Mechanism of Action

A synthetic nonapeptide identical with oxytocin, a peptide hormone, which participates in labor or delivery and
stimulates uterine contraction.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

X

Page 3 of 3