April 25, 2026, 2:18:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

PALIPERIDONE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N05AX13

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psycholeptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antipsychotics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › 50 mg/0.5 mL prolonged-release suspension for injection (Rx)

IM › 75 mg/0.75 mL prolonged-release suspension for injection (Rx)

IM › 100 mg/mL prolonged-release suspension for injection (Rx)

IM › 150 mg/1.5 mL prolonged-release suspension for injection (Rx)

Page 1 of 5



April 25, 2026, 2:18:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

IM › 50 mg/0.5 mL prolonged-release suspension for injection (Rx)

Maintaining stability in schizophrenia, by intramuscular injection, ADULT, stabilize service user/patient on oral
paliperidone. Initially, 150 mg injected into the deltoid muscle, followed after 1 week (±4 days) by 100 mg injected
into the deltoid muscle. Monthly maintenance doses (±7 days) may be administered after the second loading dose
in the gluteal muscle or the deltoid muscle and dosed based on the oral dose the service user/patient is stabilized
on: 12 mg by mouth once daily = 150 mg by intramuscular injection once a month 9 mg by mouth once daily = 100 mg
by intramuscular injection once a month 6 mg by mouth once daily = 75 mg by intramuscular injection once a month
3 mg by mouth once daily = 25-50 mg by intramuscular injection once a month. Schizoaffective disorder, by
intramuscular injection, ADULT, stabilize service user/patient on oral paliperidone. Initially, 150 mg injected into
the deltoid muscle, followed after 1 week (±4 days) by 100 mg injected into the deltoid muscle. Monthly
maintenance doses (±7 days) ranging from 25-150 mg may be administered after the second loading dose in the
gluteal muscle or the deltoid muscle and dosed based on the oral dose the service user/patient is stabilized on: 12
mg by mouth once daily = 150 mg by intramuscular injection once a month 9 mg by mouth once daily = 100 mg by
intramuscular injection once a month 6 mg by mouth once daily = 75 mg by intramuscular injection once a month 3
mg by mouth once daily = 25-50 mg by intramuscular injection once a month. Schizophrenia, by intramuscular
injection, ADULT/CHILD=12 years, stabilize service user/patient on oral paliperidone. Initially, 150 mg injected into
the deltoid muscle, followed after 1 week (±4 days) by 100 mg injected into the deltoid muscle. Monthly
maintenance doses (±7 days) may be administered after the second loading dose in the gluteal muscle or the
deltoid muscle and dosed based on the oral dose the service user/patient is stabilized on: 12 mg by mouth once
daily = 150 mg by intramuscular injection once a month 9 mg by mouth once daily = 100 mg by intramuscular
injection once a month 6 mg by mouth once daily = 75 mg by intramuscular injection once a month 3 mg by mouth
once daily = 25-50 mg by intramuscular injection once a month. Missed Doses – Second Initiation Dose <4 weeks
since first injection: Administer second dose of 100 mg by intramuscular injection into the deltoid muscle as soon
as possible, followed by a third dose of 75 mg by intramuscular injection into the deltoid or gluteal muscle 5 weeks
after the first injection (regardless of timing of second dose) 4-7 weeks since first injection: Administer second
dose of 100 mg by intramuscular injection into the deltoid muscle as soon as possible, followed by another 100 mg
by intramuscular injection into the deltoid muscle one week after the second dose. Resume regular monthly
dosing after. >7 weeks since first injection: Restart with recommended initiation dosing schedule. Missed Doses –
Maintenance Dose 4-6 weeks since last dose: Resume previous schedule and dose as soon as possible. >6 weeks
and ≤6 months since last injection: If maintenance dose <150 mg, administer the dose by intramuscular injection
into the deltoid muscle as soon as possible and administer a second previously stabilized dose after 1 week If
maintenance dose is 150 mg, administer a 100 mg dose by intramuscular injection into the deltoid muscle as soon
as possible and administer a second 100 mg dose after 1 week Continue with the previously stabilized dose 1 week
after the second injection. NOTE: Antipsychotics should not be discontinued abruptly because of the possibility of
withdrawal and rebound psychosis; discontinuation or cross-titration should be done gradually to minimize the
potential of withdrawal, rebound psychosis and extrapyramidal side effects, cholinergic rebound, rebound
insomnia, and unwanted pregnancy, unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal.

Page 2 of 5



April 25, 2026, 2:18:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IM › 50 mg/0.5 mL prolonged-release suspension for injection (Rx)

Administer by IM route only as a single injection (do not divide); do not administer by any other route. Avoid
inadvertent injection into vasculature. Do not mix with any other product or diluent. Prior to injection, shake
syringe for at least 10 seconds to ensure a homogenous suspension. Administer using only the needles that are
provided in the kit. The 2 initial injections should be administered in the deltoid muscle using a 11/2 inch, 22-gauge
needle for service patients =90 kg, and a 1 inch, 23-gauge needle for service patients <90 kg. The 2 initial deltoid
intramuscular injections help attain therapeutic concentrations rapidly. Alternate deltoid injections (right and left
deltoid muscle). The second dose may be administered 4 days before or after the weekly time point. Monthly
maintenance doses can be administered in either the deltoid or gluteal muscle. Administer injections in the
gluteal muscle using a 11/2 inch, 22-gauge needle (regardless of service user/patient weight) in the upperouter
quadrant of the gluteal area. Alternate gluteal injections (right and left gluteal muscle). The monthly maintenance
dose may be administered 7 days before or after the monthly time point.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Some patients may tolerate lower doses better; antipsychotics are considered to be potentially inappropriate in in
the elderly. and to be avoided in service patients 65 years and older with dementia due to an increased risk of
mortality, cerebrovascular accidents (stroke), a greater rate of cognitive decline with use, and potential to cause or
exacerbate or hyponatremia unless all nonpharmacologic options have failed or are not possible or the service
user/patient is threatening substantial harm toself or to others. It may be appropriate for use in schizophrenia.

Renal Impairment:
For mild renal impairment (CrCl=50 mL/min and <80 mL/min), reduce initiation doses to 100 mg by intramuscular
injection on day 1 and 75 mg by intramuscular injection after 1 week. Administer a maintenance dose of 50 mg by
intramuscular injection once a month.
Not recommended for use in service patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (CrCl<50 mL/min).

Hepatic Impairment:
No dose adjustment necessary in mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Not studied in severe hepatic impairment.

Indications

Maintenance in schizophrenia; maintaining stability in schizophrenia; schizoaffective disorder;

Page 3 of 5



April 25, 2026, 2:18:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

History of QTc prolongation or cardiac arrhythmia; recent acute myocardial infarction; uncompensated heart failure;
preexisting severe GI narrowing.

Precautions

WARNING: NOT approved for treatment of dementiarelated psychosis (increased risk of death)

STORAGE AND STABILITY: Store between 20-25°C. Excursions permitted to 15-30°C. Protect from moisture.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Dose-dependent extrapyramidal symptoms, hyperprolactinemia, anxiety, appetite changes, arthralgia,
depression, epistaxis, hypertension, infection, malaise, myalgia, edema, respiratory disorders, sleep disorders,
toothache, urinary disorders; may increase risk for diabetes and dyslipidemia.

Less Common: Alopecia, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, taste disturbances, tinnitus, visual disorders.

Rare: Inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretionobstruction, intra-operative floppy iris syndrome, pancreatitis,
pulmonary embolism, rhabdomyolysis.

NOTE: Patients taking this drug may experience weight gain and/or sedation.

Page 4 of 5



April 25, 2026, 2:18:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces the therapeutic effects of the following drugs: Amphetamines, Antidiabetics, Dopamine agonists,
Levodopa
Enhances the therapeutic effects of CNS depressants e.g. Alcohol
Increases risk adverse/toxic effect of Paliperidone: Metoclopramide
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Iohexol, Iomeprol, Iopamidol (seizures) QTc-
prolonging agents, Methylphenidate Mequitazine (arrhythmogenic effect) Serotonin modulators (neuroleptic
malignant syndrome; serotonin syndrome) SSRIs (psychomotor impairment) Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors
(neurotoxic effect; severe extrapyramidal symptoms)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Other Antipsychotics (increased hospitalization
rates and length of stay; increased mortality; QTc prolongation; torsades de pointes)

Mechanism of Action

Paliperidone is a benzisoxazole atypical antipsychotic, and a metabolite of risperidone. It is an antagonist at
dopamine (D2), serotonin (5-HT2A), adrenergic (a1 and a2), and histamine (H1) receptors. Paliperidone is not
hepatically metabolized and is eliminated via the urine, giving it less drug interactions.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 5 of 5