April 25, 2026, 2:19:13 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

PARA-AMINOSALICYLIC ACID

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J04AA01

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antimycobacterials

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Drugs for Treatment of Tuberculosis

CHEMICAL CLASS

Drugs for Multidrug Resistant Tuberculosis (MDRTB)

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 4 g Enteric coated delayed release (DR) granules Sachet (OTC)

Dosage

Administration

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Refer to adult dosing.

Renal Impairment:
CrCl 10-50 mL/minute: Administer 50% to 75% of dose.
CrCl <10 mL/minute: Administer 50% of dose.
Administer after hemodialysis: Administer 50% of dose.
Continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration: Dose for CrCl <10 mL/minute.

Indications

Adjunctive treatment of tuberculosis used in combination with other anti-tubercular agents.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 2:19:13 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Precautions

Patients with sensitivity to tartrazine dyes, nasal polyps, and asthma may have an increased risk of salicylate
sensitivity;
Use with caution in patients with gastric ulcer, hepatic impairment, and renal impairment.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Pericarditis, vasculitis, encephalopathy, fever, skin eruptions, goiter, hypoglycemia, abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea,
vomiting, agranulocytosis, anemia, leukopenia, hepatitis, jaundice, optic neuritis, eosinophilic pneumonia.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
ACE inhibitors e.g., Enalapril, Loop diuretics e.g., Furosemide, Probenecid
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Sulfonylureas
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Anticoagulants, Drotrecogin alfa, Corticosteroids, Vitamin K antagonists

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, Thrombolytic agents, NSAIDs
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Paraaminosalicylic acid:
Influenza virus vaccine

Mechanism of Action

Antimycobacterial drugs are used in the treatment of diseases caused by members of the Mycobacterium genus,
including tuberculosis (TB) and leprosy.
Combination chemotherapy is essential to kill heterogeneous populations of bacterial cells located in different
conditions within the host, and to prevent drug resistance.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2