April 25, 2026, 2:19:53 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

PENICILLIN G BENZATHINE (BENZATHINE BENZYLPENICILLIN)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J01CE08

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antibiotics and Chemotherapeutics for Dermatological Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Beta-Lactam Antibacterials, Penicillins

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › [ACCESS] 1,200,000 units (MR), vial (Rx)

Dosage

IM › [ACCESS] 1,200,000 units (MR), vial (Rx)

Acute rheumatic fever, secondary prevention, by IM injection, CHILD ≤27kg, 600000 units every 3 weeks; CHILD
>27kg, 1200000 units every 3 weeks. Pharyngitis or tonsillitis, by IM injection, ADULT, 1200000 units.

Administration

IM › [ACCESS] 1,200,000 units (MR), vial (Rx)

Warm to room temperature before administration to lessen the pain associated with injection. Administer by deep
IM injection in the upper outer quadrant of the buttock; in children <2 years of age, IM injections should be made
into the mid-lateral muscle of the thigh, not the gluteal region. Do not inject near an artery or a nerve; permanent
neurological damage or gangrene may result. When doses are repeated, rotate the injection site. Do NOT
administer by IV, SC, or intra-arterially.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Refer to adult dosing.

Indications

Secondary prevention for acute rheumatic fever and treatment for pharyngitis or tonsilitis

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:19:53 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to penicillin or any component of the formulation.

Precautions

WARNING: Not for intravenous use; cardiopulmonary arrest and death have occurred from inadvertent IV
administration.

Serious and occasionally severe or fatal hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients on penicillin
therapy, especially a history of beta-lactam hypersensitivity, history of sensitivity to multiple allergens, or previous
IgE-mediated reactions (Use with caution in asthmatic patients);
Prolonged use may result in fungal or bacterial superinfection, including C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) and
pseudomembranous colitis.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Cerebral vascular accident, cyanosis, gangrene, hypotension, pallor, palpitations, syncope, tachycardia, vasodilation,
vasospasm, vasovagal reaction, anxiety, coma, confusion, dizziness, euphoria, fatigue, headache, nervousness, pain,
seizure, somnolence, bloody stool, intestinal necrosis, nausea, vomiting, impotence, priapism, arthritis,
exacerbation, joint disorder, neurovascular damage, numbness, periostitis, rhabdomyolisis, transverse myelitis,
tremor, weakness, blindness, blurred vision, hematuria, myoglobinuria, neurogenic bladder, proteinuria, renal failure,
diaphoresis, hypersensitivity reactions, Jarisch- Herxheimer reaction, lymphadenopathy, mottling, warmth

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:19:53 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Reduces therapeutic effect of Penicillin G benzathine:
Fusidic acid, Tetracycline derivatives

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
BCG, Typhoid vaccine (only the live attenuated Ty21a strain is affected)

Decreases serum concentration of the following drugs:
Mycophenolate

Decreases excretion of the following drugs:
Methotrexate

Increases serum concentration of Penicillin G benzathine:
Probenecid

Mechanism of Action

This class of antibiotics binds to penicillin binding proteins that catalyzes the synthesis of peptidoglycan and this
leads to the interruption of cell wall synthesis, leading to bacterial cell growth inhibition and cell lysis

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 3 of 3