April 25, 2026, 2:21:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

PERMETHRIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

P03AC04

ANATOMICAL

Antiparasitic Products, Insecticides, and Repellents

THERAPEUTIC

Ectoparasiticides, Including Scabicides, Insecticides, and Repellents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Ectoparasiticides, including Scabicides

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

TOPIC › 1% lotion, 125 mL bottle (Rx)

TOPIC › 5% lotion, 30 mL bottle (Rx)

TOPIC › 5% lotion, 60 mL bottle (Rx)

TOPIC › 1% shampoo (crème rinse), 30 mL bottle (Rx)

TOPIC › 1% shampoo (crème rinse), 60 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

TOPIC › 1% lotion, 125 mL bottle (Rx)

For scabies, by topical application, ADULT and CHILD >2 months, apply 5% lotion to entire skin from chin down to
and including toes and under fingernails and toenails, leave on for 8–14 hours, repeat in 1–2 weeks. Pediculosis
pubis, by topical application, ADULT and CHILD >2 months, apply 1% crème rinse to affected areas and wash off
after 10 minutes.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:21:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

TOPIC › 1% lotion, 125 mL bottle (Rx)

Treat close contacts. Wash and dry linens to prevent re-infection. Re-apply to hands after handwashing.
Thoroughly massage the product into the skin from the head to the soles of the feet. Scabies rarely infests the
scalp of adults, although the hairline, neck, temple, and forehead may be infested in infants and geriatric patients.
Remove the product by washing (shower or bath) after 8 to 14 hours. Infants should be treated on the scalp,
temple, and forehead. ONE APPLICATION IS GENERALLY CURATIVE. Patients may experience persistent pruritus
after treatment. This is rarely a sign of treatment failure and is NOT an indication for retreatment. Demonstrable
living mites after 14 days indicate that retreatment is necessary. Avoid contact with eyes, mucous membrane, and
broken skin.

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Indications

Treatment of scabies (Sarcoptes scabiei); head pediculosis

Precautions

Dermatological effects (may temporarily exacerbate pruritus, edema, and erythema associated with scabies
infestation).
Children (safety and effectiveness in children <2 months have not been established).
Lactation (excreted in breast milk; withhold drug while mother is nursing)

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Mild and transient burning and stinging, pruritus, erythema, numbness, tingling, rash, skin and scalp
irritation, eczema, localized edema

Drug Interactions

No information found

Mechanism of Action

A topical scabicidal agent. It acts on the nerve cell membrane to disrupt the sodium channel current by which the
polarization of the membrane is regulated, resulting to paralysis.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:21:08 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 3 of 3