April 25, 2026, 2:25:37 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

PHENYLEPHRINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01FB01

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Mydriatics and Cycloplegics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › 2.5% eye drops solution (as hydrochloride), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › 2.5% eye drops solution (as hydrochloride), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Vasoconstriction and pupil dilation, into the eye, ADULT, 1 drop on the upper limbus, may repeat after 1 hour if
needed. Uveitis, into the eye, ADULT, 1 drop to the upper surface of the cornea, may be repeated as necessary, not
to exceed 3 times; treatment may be continued the following day if necessary. Mydriasis, into the eye, ADULT and
CHILD ≥1 year, instill 1 drop, may repeat in 10–60 minutes as needed; CHILD <1 year, instill 1 drop 15–30 minutes prior
to procedure. Ophthalmoscopic examination, into the eye, ADULT, 1 drop in each eye; sufficient mydriasis to permit
examination is produced in 15–30 minutes; dilation lasts for 1–3 hours. Blanching test, into the eye, ADULT, instill 1–
2 drops to the injected eye; examine for perilimbal blanching after 5 minutes [if blanching occurs, congestion is
superficial]. NOTE: May instill a suitable topical anesthetic a few minutes prior to phenylephrine to prevent
stinging and consequent dilution of the solution by lacrimation.

Administration

OPHTHALM › 2.5% eye drops solution (as hydrochloride), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

For topical ophthalmic use only. NOT for intraocular use. Apply finger pressure to the lacrimal sac (inside corner of
the eye) during and for 2–3 minutes after instillation to decrease risk of absorption and systemic effects. Do NOT
touch dropper tip to eyelids or other surfaces when placing drops in eyes to avoid contamination.

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:25:37 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Vasoconstrictor, decongestant, and mydriatic in a variety of ophthalmic conditions and procedures; pupillary dilation
in uveitis; for refraction without cycloplegia; for funduscopy and other diagnostic procedures.

Contraindications

Narrow angle glaucoma; low birth weight infants; severe arteriosclerotic cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease;
intraocular operative procedures where corneal epithelial barrier has been disturbed.

Precautions

WARNING: Prolonged exposure to air or strong light may cause oxidation and discoloration. Do NOT use if solution is
brown or contains a precipitate.

Cardiac disease;
Significant hypertension;
Advanced arteriosclerosis;
Elderly (rebound miosis has been reported; may develop transient pigment floaters in the aqueous humor 40–45
minutes following administration);
Children and infants (use with caution in children with known cardiac anomalies).
Pregnancy (use only if clearly needed);
Lactation (use with caution)

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Marked increase in blood pressure, syncope, myocardial infarction, tachycardia, arrhythmia, fatal subarachnoid
hemorrhage.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:25:37 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of systemic adverse effects of Beta Blockers e.g., Propranolol

Enhances therapeutic effect of MAO inhibitors e.g., Selegeline (adrenergic effects)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances systemic pressor effects of Phenylephrine, including tachycardia:Atropine, Tricyclic antidepressants e.g.,
Amitriptyline

Mechanism of Action

An alpha receptor sympathomimetic agent used in local ocular disorders because of its vasoconstrictor and
mydriatic action.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3