April 25, 2026, 2:26:54 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

PHYTOMENADIONE (PHYTONADIONE, VITAMIN K1) (Other Plain
Vitamin Preparations)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B02BA01

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Antihemorrhagics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Vitamin K and Other Hemostatics

CHEMICAL CLASS

Vitamin K

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › ORAL › 2 mg/0.2 mL pediatric ampule (as mixed micelle) (Rx)

IM › IV › SC › 10 mg/mL, 1 mL ampule (as mixed micelle) (Rx)

IM › IV › SC › 10 mg/mL, 1 mL ampule (as aqueous colloidal solution with benzyl alcohol) (Rx)

Dosage

IV / ORAL › 2 mg/0.2 mL pediatric ampule (as mixed micelle) (Rx)

Prophylaxis of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn, by IM injection, NEONATE, 0.5-1 mg as single dose; by mouth,
NEONATE, 2 mg followed by a second dose after 4-7 days and for breastfed babies a third dose after 1 month.
Treatment of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn, by slow IV or IM injection, NEONATE, 1 mg (with further doses if
necessary, at 8-hour intervals).

Administration

IV / ORAL › 2 mg/0.2 mL pediatric ampule (as mixed micelle) (Rx)

IV administration should be slow, over 30 seconds. Rapid infusion can cause dyspnea, chest pain, and back pain.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:26:54 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Dose should be at the lower end of the recommended range.

Hepatic Impairment:
For mild-to-moderate impairment, use with caution.
For severe impairment, refer patient to a specialist.

Indications

Management of anticoagulant-induced prothrombin deficiency caused by indanedione or coumarin derivatives such
as warfarin; treatment and prophylaxis against hemorrhagic disease of the newborn.

Contraindications

Known hypersensitivity to phytomenadione or any component of the formulation; avoid IM if bleeding; pregnancy (3rd
trimester); it is not effective in hereditary hypoprothrombinemia caused by liver disease.

Precautions

Hepatic impairment; Elderly.
NOTE: Fat-soluble Vitamin. Patients with fat malabsorption, especially in biliary obstruction or hepatic disease may
become Vitamin K deficient.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Erythema, flushing, nausea, pain, tenderness, tiredness, vomiting, warmth sensation
Less Common: Allergic reactions (including anaphylaxis), bradycardia, bronchospasm,hypotension, rebound bleeding
Rare: Anaphylactoid reactions,hyperbilirubinemia, kernicterus dizziness, hemolytic dyspnea, anemia

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:26:54 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Decreases therapeutic effect of Phytomenadione: Anticonvulsants, e.g., Phenobarbital, Phenytoin, Antituberculosis
Drugs, e.g., Isoniazid, Rifampicin (may cause vitamin K deficiency bleeding on the first day of life in newborns)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Anticoagulants, e.g., Warfarin (increases synthesis of blood
clotting factors)

Mechanism of Action

A fat-soluble vitamin that is an essential cofactor in the synthesis of blood coagulation factors: prothrombin (II),
proconvertin (VII), plasma thromboplastin component (IX), Stuart factor (X), and proteins C and S.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C; X in 3rd trimester or near term

Page 3 of 3