April 25, 2026, 2:27:06 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

PILOCARPINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01EB01

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antiglaucoma Preparations and Miotics

CHEMICAL CLASS

Anticholinesterases (Parasympathomimetics)

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › 1% eye drops solution (as hydrochloride), 10 mL bottle (Rx)

OPHTHALM › 1% eye drops solution (as hydrochloride), 15 mL bottle (Rx)

OPHTHALM › 2% eye drops solution (as hydrochloride), 10 mL bottle (Rx)

OPHTHALM › 2% eye drops solution (as hydrochloride), 15 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › 1% eye drops solution (as hydrochloride), 10 mL bottle (Rx)

Reduction of elevated IOP in open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension, into the eye, ADULT, 1 drop of 2%
solution in the affected eye(s) up to 4 times daily; CHILD <2 years, 1 drop of 2% solution in the affected eye(s) 3
times daily [NOTE: The frequency of instillation and concentration of pilocarpine are determined by the severity of
the elevated IOP and miotic response of the patient]. Management of acute angle-closure glaucoma, into the eye,
ADULT, initially 1 drop of 2% solution in the affected eye(s) up to 3 times over a 30-minute period [NOTE: Treatment
with secretory suppressants and hyperosmotic agents may be needed to lower IOP below 50 mmHg and relieve iris
ischemia prior to administration. If laser iridoplasty or iridotomy is used to break the attack, instill 1 drop of 4%
solution prior to the procedure. Following laser iridoplasty, instill 1 drop of 2% solution 4 times daily until an
iridotomy can be performed]. Prevention of post-operative elevated IOP associated with laser surgery, into the
eye, ADULT, instill 1 drop of 1% or 2% solution in the affected eye(s) 15–60 minutes prior to surgery, or 2 drops 5
minutes apart. Induction of miosis, into the eye, ADULT, instill 1 drop of 2% solution in the affected eye(s) or 2
drops 5 minutes apart; CHILD <2 years, 1 drop 2% solution in the affected eye(s) 15 to 60 minutes prior to surgery.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:27:06 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

OPHTHALM › 1% eye drops solution (as hydrochloride), 10 mL bottle (Rx)

For topical ophthalmic use only. NOT for injection Apply finger pressure to the lacrimal sac (inside corner of the
eye) during and for 1–2 minutes after instillation to decrease risk of absorption and systemic effects. Contact
lenses should be removed prior to the administration and may be reinserted 10 minutes after administration. Do
NOT touch dropper tip to eyelids or other surfaces when placing drops in eyes to avoid contamination. NOTE:
Pilocarpine-naïve patients should be started on 1% concentration as higher concentrations are often not
tolerated initially. May be used in combination with beta blockers, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, hyperosmotic
agents, or sympathomimetics. If more than one topical ophthalmic product is being used, administer at least 5
minutes apart.

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Indications

Reduction of elevated IOP in open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension; management of acute angle-closure
glaucoma; prevention of post-operative elevated IOP associated with laser surgery; induction of miosis.

Contraindications

Conditions where constriction is undesirable (e.g., acute iritis).

Precautions

Poor illumination (e.g., accommodation spasm);
Pre-existing retinal disease (e.g., rare cases of retinal
detachment);
Iritis;
Primary congenital glaucoma (e.g., cases of paradoxical
increase in IOP);
Pregnancy (administer only if clearly needed);
Lactation (not known if excreted in breast milk).

SKILLED TASKS. May cause blurred vision. Avoid performing
tasks, which require mental alertness, e.g., operating
machinery or driving.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:27:06 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Headache, brow ache, accommodative change, blurred vision, eye irritation, visual impairment, eye pain, ciliary
spasm, conjunctival vascular congestion, induced myopia, reduced visual acuity in poor illumination, lens opacity
(prolonged use).

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with: Enhances therapeutic effect of Pilocarpine:
Parasympathomimetics (additive effect)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Beta Blockers (conduction disturbances), Miotic drugs (toxic reactions)

Reduces anticholinergic effects of Pilocarpine:Atropine, Ipratropium (Inhalation)

Mechanism of Action

A direct acting cholinergic parasympathomimetic agent that acts through direct stimulation of muscarinic receptors
and smooth muscle, such as the iris and secretory glands. It contracts the ciliary muscle, causing increased tension
on the scleral spur and opening of the trabecular meshwork spaces. This reduces outflow resistance, resulting in a
decrease in intraocular pressure (IOP). Pilocarpine also causes a contraction of the iris sphincter muscle, producing
miosis.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3