April 25, 2026, 2:28:40 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

POTASSIUM PHOSPHATE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05XA06

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Additives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 224 mg monobasic potassium phosphate equivalent to 3 mmol phosphorus and 4.4 mEq potassium per 236
mg dibasic-potassium phosphate anhydrous per mL in 5 mL vial (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 224 mg monobasic potassium phosphate equivalent to 3 mmol phosphorus and 4.4 mEq potassium per 236 mg dibasic-
potassium phosphate anhydrous per mL in 5 mL vial (Rx)

NOTE: Dose is dependent on individual needs of the patient. INTRAVENOUS TPN: by IV injection, ADULT and CHILD,
10–15 mM (310–465 mg) of phosphorus/liter of TPN solution to maintain normal serum phosphate (1 mM equals 31
mg); INFANT, 1.5–2 mM/kg daily. Acute hypophosphatemia: by IV injection, ADULT and CHILD, 0.08–0.32 mM/kg as
loading dose, equally distributed over 6 hour; maintain pediatric patients with 0.5–1.5 mM/kg every 24 hours and
adults with 48.4–64.5 mM every 24 hours.

Administration

IV › 224 mg monobasic potassium phosphate equivalent to 3 mmol phosphorus and 4.4 mEq potassium per 236 mg dibasic-
potassium phosphate anhydrous per mL in 5 mL vial (Rx)

For IV infusion. Infuse slowly. Equally distribute desired dose over 6 hours. May also administer up to 15 mM over 2
hours, up to 30 mM over 4 hours, and up to 45 mM over 6 hours. Dilute in a larger volume of suitable IV solution prior
to administration. Soluble in most commonly used IV solutions except protein hydrolysate. Mix thoroughly. When
adding an additive, consult a pharmacist. Specific conditions may apply. TPN solutions requiring the addition of
phosphates and calcium salts must be mixed by the pharmacist to avoid a precipitate of calcium phosphate. NOTE:
Rapid infusion may cause phosphate or potassium intoxication. Serum calcium may be reduced rapidly, causing
hypocalcemic tetany. Potassium phosphate will be further limited by the maximum rate for potassium. Consider
potassium content.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:28:40 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Initiate doses at the lower end of the dosing range based on the potential for decreased organ function and
concomitant disease or drug therapy.

Indications

For parenteral nutrition to prevent or correct hypophosphatemia in patients with restricted or no oral intake.

Contraindications

Any disease with high phosphate or low calcium levels; hyperkalemia; severe renal impairment; infected phosphate
renal calculi.

Precautions

Rapid infusion may cause phosphate, sodium, or potassium intoxication. Serum calcium may be reduced, rapidly
causing hypocalcemic tetany; Cardiac disease, renal disease, and digitalized patients (use with caution).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, ectopic calcification, hypotension, organ damage, acute renal failure,
tissue calcification, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, flatulence, bradycardia, hyperkalemia, weakness,
dyspnea.
Potentially fatal: Acute renal failure, arrhythmia, chest pain, decreased urine output, dyspnea, edema, mental
confusion, paralysis, paresthesias, phlebitis, tetany.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:28:40 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Alters absorption of the following drugs:
Aluminum, Calcium, or Magnesium Salts (decreased absorption due to phosphate binding)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Hyperkalemia: ACE Inhibitors, e.g., Enalapril; Potassium-sparing Diuretics
Hyperphosphatemia: Vitamin D (hyperphosphatemia)

Increases therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Digitalis

Mechanism of Action

A sterile preparation that contains potassium phosphate, utilized for the treatment of hypophosphatemia

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3