April 25, 2026, 2:29:35 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

PRAZIQUANTEL

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

P02BA01

ANATOMICAL

Antiparasitic Products, Insecticides, and Repellents

THERAPEUTIC

Antihelminthics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antitrematodals

CHEMICAL CLASS

Quinoline derivatives and related substances

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 600 mg tablet (available under DOH program) (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 600 mg tablet (available under DOH program) (Rx)

For fluke and tapeworm infections including Cysticercus cellulosae; intestinal schistosomiasis; urinary
schistosomiasis

Administration

ORAL › 600 mg tablet (available under DOH program) (Rx)

Should be taken on a full stomach. Swallow with water, without chewing, to lessen its bitter taste.

Dose Adjustment

Hepatic Impairment:
Consider reducing dose due to increased concentration and half-life.

Indications

For fluke and tapeworm infections including Cysticercus cellulosae; intestinal schistosomiasis; urinary
schistosomiasis

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:29:35 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Ocular cysticercosis

Precautions

Cardiovascular disease; cerebral cysticercosis (it is recommended to hospitalize patients for the duration of
treatment)
Ocular cysticercosis (severe eye damage due to death of parasites may occur)
Undiagnosed neurocysticercosis (seizures may result if praziquantel is used to treat another systemic infection).
Paragonimus infections (may have CNS involvement); severe hepatic disease
Areas endemic for cysticercosis (possible risk of edematous reaction)
Reduced liver drug metabolism may result in higher and longer lasting plasma concentration of unmetabolized
praziquantel. Pregnancy (Taenia solium infections should be treated immediately; benefit of treatment in
schistosomiasis outweighs the risk; if treatment is not essential, it should be delayed until after delivery);
breastfeeding (low excretion in breastmilk; avoid breastfeeding during, and for 72 hours, after treatment;
considered safe to continue breastfeeding during treatment).

SKILLED TASKS. Avoid performing tasks, which require mental alertness, e.g., operating machinery or driving. Warn
patient not to operate machinery or drive during treatment or for 24 hours after treatment.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Abdominal pain, anorexia, appetite loss, colic, diarrhea, dizziness, drowsiness, fever, headache, malaise,
myalgia, nausea, reversible rises in hepatic aminotransferases, somnolence, urticaria, vertigo, vomiting

Rare: Arrhythmias, bloody diarrhea, hypersensitivity reactions, rectal bleeding, seizures, eosinophilia, pruritus

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:29:35 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Praziquantel: Carbamazepine, Chloroquine, Dexamethasone, Phenytoin

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Praziquantel due to decreased serum concentration of active metabolite/s: CYP450
Inducers (e.g., Rifampicin)

Increases serum concentration of Praziquantel: CYP Inhibitors (e.g., Cimetidine, Erythromycin, Itraconazole)

Mechanism of Action

NOTE: Available at the DOH Central Office and government health facilities in endemic areas.

A quinoline-derived, broad-spectrum anthelmintic, which is effective, as a single dose, in the treatment of
schistosome infections of all species, and other trematode and cestode infections, including cysticercosis. It
increases the cell permeability to Ca in schistosomes, causing contractions and paralysis of worm musculature
leading to detachment of suckers from the blood vessel walls and to dislodgement.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 3 of 3