April 25, 2026, 2:29:51 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

PREDNISOLONE (ANTIINFLAMMATORY AGENTS)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01BA04

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antiinflammatory Agents

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops suspension (as acetate), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

OPHTHALM › 1% eye drops suspension (as acetate), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops suspension (as acetate), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Ophthalmic inflammatory conditions or corneal injury, into the eye, ADULT, instill 1–2 drops in the affected eye(s) 2–
4 times daily; during the initial 24–48 hours, dosing frequency may be increased if necessary; if signs and
symptoms fail to improve after 2 days, reevaluate.

Administration

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops suspension (as acetate), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

For topical ophthalmic use only. Shake well before use. Apply finger pressure to the lacrimal sac (inside corner of
the eye) during and for 1–2 minutes after instillation to decrease risk of absorption and systemic effects. Do NOT
touch dropper tip to eyelids or other surfaces when placing drops in eyes to avoid contamination. NOTE: Do NOT
discontinue therapy prematurely. Withdraw therapy with gradual tapering of dose in chronic conditions.

Dose Adjustment

No dose adjustments provided in manufacturer’s labeling.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:29:51 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Treatment of corneal injury from chemical, thermal, or radiation burns, or from penetration of foreign bodies;
treatment of steroid-responsive inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva, cornea, and
anterior segment of the globe such as acne rosacea, allergic conjunctivitis, cyclitis, herpes zoster keratitis, iritis,
superficial punctate keratitis, and selected infective conjunctivitis.

Contraindications

Acute untreated purulent ocular infections; viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva; mycobacterial or fungal
infections of the eye; hypersensitivity to other corticosteroids.

Precautions

Cataracts; Corneal thinning; Glaucoma; Immunosuppression; Pregnancy; Lactation.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common and Less Common:
Conjunctival hyperemia, conjunctivitis, corneal ulcers, delayed wound healing, glaucoma, increased intraocular
pressure, keratitis, loss of accommodation, optic nerve damage, mydriasis, posterior subcapsular cataract
formation, ptosis, secondary ocular infection.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Ceritinib (hyperglycemic effect)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Prednisolone:
NSAID, Ophthalmic (delayed healing of ophthalmic tissue with concomitant administration)

Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Insulin, Oral Hypoglycemics e.g., Gliclazide

Mechanism of Action

An adrenocortical steroid product prepared as sterile ophthalmic suspension. It reduces inflammation by inhibiting
edema, leukocyte migration, fibrin deposition, capillary proliferation and dilation, collagen deposition, and scar
formation.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:29:51 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3