April 25, 2026, 2:30:00 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

PREDNISONE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

H02AB07

ANATOMICAL

Systemic Hormonal Preparations, Excluding Sex Hormones and Insulins

THERAPEUTIC

Corticosteroids for Systemic Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Glucocorticoids

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 10 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 20 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 10 mg/5 mL suspension, 60 mL (Rx)

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:30:00 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (Rx)

NOTE: No definitive treatment guidelines exist. Dosing is dependent on institution protocols and individual
response. General dosing range, by mouth, initially 5–60 mg daily: RECOMMENDATIONS ON APPROPRIATE USE:
Prior to use, dose and duration of treatment should be based on the risk versus benefit for each individual patient.
Generally, use the smallest effective dose for the shortest duration of time to minimize the adverse events.
Consider alternate day therapy for long-term therapy to reduce adverse effects. Dosage for infants and children
should be based on severity of the disease and response of the patient rather than age, weight, or body surface
area. Gradually taper dose prior to discontinuing therapy, especially long-term therapy. Abrupt withdrawal may
precipitate acute adrenal insufficiency. Individualize tapering of dose based on the disease and severity of
condition. For example, the dose may be tapered off by 10–20% every 3–5 days until a dose of 10 mg daily is
reached. A slower weekly tapering is recommended. Autoimmune or inflammatory disease, by mouth, ADULT,
initially 5–60 mg once daily depending on the disease and its severity, adjust dose according to response and
recommended guidelines; CHILD, initially 1–2 mg/kg once daily (usual maximum dose, 60 mg) with dose
adjustments based on guidelines. Croup, by mouth, CHILD, 1 mg/kg; repeat dose after 12–24 hours if necessary.
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, by mouth, ADULT, begin within 72 hours of PCP therapy: 40 mg twice daily for 5
days, followed by 20 mg once daily for 11 days or until antimicrobial regimen is completed; CHILD, 1 mg/kg twice
daily for 5 days, followed by 0.5–1 mg/kg twice daily for 5 days, followed by 0.5 mg/kg once daily for 11–21 days. Acute
asthma, by mouth, ADULT, 40–60 mg daily for 3–10 days as a single dose or in 2 divided doses; CHILD <12 years, 1–2
mg/kg daily for 3–10 days, with a maximum of 60 mg daily. Rheumatoid arthritis, by mouth, ADULT, ≤10 mg daily
[NOTE: Once the condition has stabilized, reduce to the minimum required to maintain control of disorder.] Acute
gout, by mouth, ADULT, initially at least 0.5 mg/kg for 5–10 days. Dermatomyositis/polymyositis, by mouth, ADULT, 1
mg/kg daily (range of 0.5–1.5 mg/kg daily), often in conjunction with steroid-sparing therapies. Immune
thrombocytopenia, by mouth, ADULT, 1–2 mg/kg daily. Nephrotic syndrome, by mouth, CHILD, initially 2 mg/kg daily
or 60 mg/m2 daily in 1–3 divided doses, with a maximum of 80 mg daily until urine is protein free for 4–6 weeks;
followed by a maintenance dose of 2 mg/kgor 40 mg/m2every other day in the morning; discontinue after 4–6
weeks by gradual tapering. Lupus nephritis, induction, by mouth, ADULT, the following doses apply: Lupus
Nephritis Class: III–IV Dose: 0.5–1 mg/kg daily (after glucocorticoid pulse) tapered, after a few weeks, to the lowest
effective dose, combined with an immunosuppressive agent Lupus Nephritis Class: V Dose: 0.5 mg/kg daily for 6
months combined with mycophenolate mofetil and, if no improvement is seen after 6 months, use 0.5–1 mg/kg
daily (after glucocorticoid pulse) for an additional 6 months combined with cyclophosphamide

Administration

ORAL › 5 mg tablet (Rx)

Best taken with food. Taking it early in the morning reduces possible side effects.

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
For mild-to-moderate renal impairment, dose reduction is warranted.
For severe impairment, refer patient to a specialist.

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:30:00 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Management of autoimmune disease; croup; short-term suppression of inflammation in allergic disorders;
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia; atopic dermatitis; dermatomyositis or polymyositis; nephrotic syndrome (idiopathic
or related to lupus erythematosus); immune-mediated thrombocytopenia; inflammatory bowel disease; eye
inflammation; rheumatic disease; immunosuppression; acute severe asthma (reliever); severe persistent asthma
not responding to high-dose inhaled steroids, long-acting agonists, and methylxanthines (controller); adrenal
insufficiency

Contraindications

Untreated systemic fungal infections; administration of live or live, attenuated virus vaccines with
immunosuppressive doses of prednisone

Precautions

Adrenal suppression;
Anaphylactoid reactions;
Diabetes;
Immunosuppression;
Latent TB;
Kaposi sarcoma;
Myopathy;
Myasthenia gravis;
Psychiatric disturbances;
Seizure disorders;
Cardiovascular disease;
Myocardial infarction;
GI disease (avoid ethanol since this may enhance gastric mucosal irritation);
Head injury (high doses should not be used for the management of head injury);
Ocular disease;
Hepatic impairment, i.e. cirrhosis, and renal impairment;
Osteoporosis;
Thyroid disease;
Stress (may require higher doses when subject to stress, i.e., trauma, surgery, severe infection);
Elderly;
Children;
Pregnancy (use in early pregnancy may slightly increase the risk of orofacial clefts);
Lactation (allow a 4-hour interval between administration and breastfeeding).

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:30:00 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Acne, adrenal suppression, amenorrhea, bruising, delayed wound healing, dyslipidemia, dyspepsia, edema,
fat redistribution, fractures, growth retardation, hirsutism, hyperglycemia, hiccups, hypertension, hypokalemia,
increased appetite, increased susceptibility to infections, malaise, masking of signs of infection, muscle weakness
and wasting, myopathy, nausea, osteoporosis, psychiatric effects, skin atrophy, sodium and water retention, weight
gain
Less Common: Glaucoma, ocular hypertension, Osteonecrosis or aseptic necrosis (femoral and humeral heads)
Rare: Anaphylactoid reaction, chorioretinopathy (central), euphoria, hypersensitivity reactions, hypomania, peptic
ulceration, tendon rupture

Drug Interactions

NOTE: Prednisone is a substrate for CYP3A-based interaction.

Please see Drug Interactions under Prednisolone

Mechanism of Action

A corticosteroid with glucocorticoid and anti-inflammatory effects that can suppress adrenal function at high doses.
It is rapidly converted to the prednisolone in the body. Its antitumor effects may be related to the inhibition of
glucose transport, phosphorylation, or induction of cell death in immature lymphocytes. Its antiemetic effects are
thought to occur due to blockade of cerebral innervations of the emetic center by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C; D in the 1st trimester

Page 4 of 4