April 25, 2026, 2:30:15 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

PRIMAQUINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

P01BA03

ANATOMICAL

Antiparasitic Products, Insecticides, and Repellents

THERAPEUTIC

Antiprotozoals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Agents Against Amoebiasis and Other Protozoal Diseases

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 26.3 mg tablet (as diphosphate) (15 mg base) (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 26.3 mg tablet (as diphosphate) (15 mg base) (Rx)

Uncomplicated malaria due to P. falciparum or P. malariae (in combination with artemether-lumefantrine), ADULT
and CHILD, 0.25 mg base per kg per day as a single dose per day 1. Uncomplicated malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale,
first-line treatment (in combination with chloroquine 10 mg/kg on day 1–2, then 5 mg/kg on day 3), by mouth, ADULT
and CHILD, 0.25 mg base/kg per day as a single dose for day 1 to 14. Relapse malaria due to hypnozoites of P. vivax
(in combination with chloroquine 10 mg/kg on day 1–2, then 5 mg/kg on day 3; or with artemether-lumefantrine), by
mouth, ADULT and CHILD, 0.75 mg/kg per day on day 1–14 (maximum dose, 30–45 mg/day). Severe malaria due to P.
vivax or P. ovale (in combination with artemether-lumefantrine). Mixed malarial infection due to P. falciparum and P.
vivax with or without P. malariae (in combination with artemether-lumefantrine). Mixed malarial infection due to P.
vivax and P. malariae (in combination with chloroquine tablet 10 mg/kg on day 1– 2, then 5 mg/kg on day 3), by
mouth, ADULT and CHILD, 0.25 mg base/kg per day as a single dose for day 1 to 14. Relapse malaria due to P. vivax (in
combination with chloroquine (150 mg base tablet), 2 tablets weekly for 8 weeks, by mouth, ADULT (lactating
women), 0.25 mg/kg daily on day 1–14 (maximum, 30–45 mg daily).

Administration

ORAL › 26.3 mg tablet (as diphosphate) (15 mg base) (Rx)

Take with food to avoid stomach upset and pain Do NOT give to patients with G6PD deficiency.

Dose Adjustment

G6PD Deficiency:
For mild deficiency, administer 0.75 mg/kg once a week for 8 weeks.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:30:15 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Radical cure in relapsing infections of P. vivax and P. ovale malaria; elimination of intrahepatic forms of P. vivax and P.
ovale (after standard chloroquine therapy); elimination of P. falciparum gametocytes (after standard therapy with a
blood schizontocide)

Contraindications

Radical cure in relapsing infections of P. vivax and P. ovale malaria; elimination of intrahepatic forms of P. vivax and P.
ovale (after standard chloroquine therapy); elimination of P. falciparum gametocytes (after standard therapy with a
blood schizontocide)

Precautions

G6PD deficiency (exclude before radical treatment for P. vivax and P. ovale malaria; but, not necessary before single-
dose gametocytocidal treatment); Concomitant use with other potentially hemolytic drugs that depress myeloid
elements of the bone marrow (monitor if either methemoglobinemia or hemolysis occurs, withdraw treatment and
consult a physician).
Pregnancy (withhold during entire pregnancy; neonatal hemolysis and methemoglobinemia have been reported with
use during the third trimester); lactation (excreted in breast milk in amounts not harmful to the nursing infant and in
insufficient amounts to provide protection against malaria).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Abdominal pain, anorexia, dizziness, headache, leukocytosis, nausea, vomiting

Less Common: Hemolytic anemia, methemoglobinemia

Rare: Agranulocytosis, anemia, arrhythmias,
granulocytopenia, hypertension, interference with visual
accommodation, hemoglobinuria, leukopenia, pruritus

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:30:15 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of hematological adverse effects of the following drugs:
Bone Marrow Depressants, Hemolytics

Mechanism of Action

An 8-aminoquinoline antimalarial used for the radical cure and terminal prophylaxis of infections with P. vivax and P.
ovale. It eliminates the exoerythrocytic form of malarial parasite by disrupting the mitochondria and binding to DNA.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3