April 25, 2026, 2:34:20 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

RABIES IMMUNOGLOBULIN (HUMAN)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J06BB05

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Immune Sera and Immunoglobulins

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Immunoglobulins

CHEMICAL CLASS

Specific Immunoglobulins

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › 150 IU/mL, 2 mL vial (Rx)

IM › 150 IU/mL, 5 mL vial (Rx)

IM › 150 IU/mL, 2 mL ampule (Rx)

IM › 150 IU/mL, 5 mL ampule (Rx)

IM › 150 IU/mL, 10 mL ampule (Rx)

Dosage

IM › 150 IU/mL, 2 mL vial (Rx)

Post-exposure prophylaxis, by IM injection, ADULT and CHILD, local would infiltration: 20 units/kg in a single dose,
RIG should always be administered as part of rabies vaccine regimen. If anatomically feasible, the full rabies
immune globulin dose should be infiltrated around and into the wound/s; remaining volume should be
administered IM at a site distant from the vaccine administration site.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:34:20 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IM › 150 IU/mL, 2 mL vial (Rx)

Do not administer IV. Post-exposure would infiltration: If anatomically feasible, the full rabies immune globulin
dose should be infiltrated around the wound; remaining volume should be administered IM in the deltoid muscle
of the upper arm or lateral thigh muscle. The gluteal area should be avoided to reduce the risk of sciatic nerve
damage. Do not administer rabies vaccine in the same syringe or at the same administration site as rabies
immunoglobulin. If rabies vaccine was initiated without RIG, RIG may be administered through the seventh day
after the administration of the first dose of the vaccine. Administration of RIG is not recommended after the
seventh day post vaccine since an antibody response to the vaccine is expected during this time period.

Indications

Part of post-exposure prophylaxis of persons with rabies exposure who lack a history of pre-exposure or post-
exposure prophylaxis with rabies vaccine or a recently documented neutralizing antibody response to previous
rabies vaccination.

Precautions

Hypersensitivity and anaphylactic reactions can occur; immediate treatment (including epinephrine 1:1000) should be
available;
Use with caution in patients with isolated IgA deficiency or a history of systemic hypersensitivity to human
immunoglobulins;
Use with caution in patients with thrombocytopenia or coagulation disorders, IM injections may be contraindicated;
Product of human plasma; may potentially contain infectious agents which could transmit disease.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Fever, headache, malaise, angioedema, rash, urticaria, soreness at injection site, tenderness, stiffness, nephrotic
syndrome, anaphylaxis

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effects of the following drugs:
Live vaccines (except: influenza virus vaccine (live/attenuated);
rotavirus vaccine;
yellow fever vaccine;
zoster vaccine

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:34:20 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3