April 25, 2026, 2:34:31 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

RABIES VACCINE - VERO CELL (PURIFIED)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J07BG01

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Vaccines

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Viral Vaccines

CHEMICAL CLASS

Rabies Vaccines

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

I-DERMAL › IM › 2.5 IU/0.5 mL lyophilized powder, vial + diluent (Rx)

IM › 2.5 IU/mL suspension, 1 mL vial (Rx)

Dosage

I-DERMAL / IM › 2.5 IU/0.5 mL lyophilized powder, vial + diluent (Rx)

Pre-exposure vaccination, by IM injection, ADULT and CHILD, three 0.5 mL doses on days 0, 7, and 28, followed by
one 0.5 mL booster dose after 1 year and every 5 year hence after; may administer third dose as early as day 21 if
time is limited; by ID injection, ADULT and CHILD, three 0.1 mL doses on days 0, 7, 28, followed by one 0.5 mL
booster dose after 1 year and every 5 year hence after; may administer third dose as early as day 21 if time is
limited. Pre-exposure vaccination, by IM injection, ADULT and CHILD (fully immunized within the last 5 years, with a
cell culture rabies vaccine), two 0.5 mL doses on days 0 and 3; ADULT and CHILD (non-immunized, immunized more
than 5 years ago, or incomplete vaccination), five 0.5 mL doses on days 0, 3, 7, 14, and 28 with 20 IU/kg of body
weight human rabies immunoglobulins (RIG) or 40 IU/kg of body weight equine RIG, administered at the same time
as the first injection for severe injuries [NOTE: Administer vaccine contralaterally to the RIG administration sites];
by ID injection, ADULT and CHILD (fully immunized within the last 5 years, with a cell culture rabies vaccine), two 0.1
mL doses on days 0 and 3; ADULT and CHILD (non-immunized, immunized more than 5 years ago, or incomplete
vaccination), one 0.1 mL dose at 2 sites on days 0, 3, 7, 14, and 28 with 20 IU/kg of body weight human rabies
immunoglobulins (RIG) or 40 IU/kg of body weight equine RIG, administered at the same time as the first injection
for severe injuries [NOTE: Administer vaccine contralaterally to the RIG administration sites].

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:34:31 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

I-DERMAL / IM › 2.5 IU/0.5 mL lyophilized powder, vial + diluent (Rx)

For IM administration into the deltoid region in adults and children or the anterolateral thigh for children <2 years
of age. Do NOT inject into the gluteal area because weaker levels of neutralizing antibodies have been observed
when this area is used. May also administer by ID injection as an alternative into the upper or forearm. ID route
must be administered only by medical staff trained in this technique to ensure vaccine is delivered by ID and NOT
by SC. Use sterile syringe with fixed needle (insulin type). Do NOT inject by IV or SC. Thoroughly clean bite wound
prior to administration. Immediately flush out and wash with soap or detergent to eliminate rabies virus at the
infection site. Thoroughly remove all traces of soap then apply 70% alcohol solution, tincture or solution of iodine,
or 0.1% quaternary ammonium solution. Reconstitute using the solvent provided. Shak gently to obtain a
homogenous suspension, appearing as a limpid liquid. Immediately administer vaccine. Reconstituted vaccine may
be used for up to 8 hours provided it is maintained at 2–8oC. Discard unused portions after 8 hours.

Indications

Active immunization against rabies; pre exposure and post-exposure prevention

NOTE: WHO recommends pre-exposure immunization of individuals at high risk of contracting rabies, including
people living or traveling to enzootic areas and those at risk due to occupational exposure, such as health and
laboratory workers, animal handlers, veterinary surgeons, etc.

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to the vaccine or any of its components; fever; acute illness

Precautions

Precautions:
Caution in individuals with history of systemic allergic reaction to any ingredient in the vaccine; acute febrile illness
(postpone all vaccinations until patient is well); once initiated, rabies prophylaxis should not be interrupted nor
discontinued because of development of local or mild systemic reactions (the risk of acquiring rabies should be
weighed before deciding to discontinue vaccination).

NOTE: immediate treatment for anaphylaxis or hypersensitivity reactions, including epinephrine 1:1000 should be
available during vaccine use.

NOTE: If schedule requires rabies vaccine and rabies immunoglobulin to be administered at the same time, they
should be given using separate syringes and separate sites.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:34:31 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Abdominal pain, allergic reactions, diarrhea, dizziness, dyspnea, fainting,
headache, lymphadenopathy, malaise, myalgia, nausea, rash, serum sickness like reactions, transient fever,
transient injection site reactions (pain, redness, itching, swelling or burning, small hard lump that may persist for
some weeks), vomiting, weakness.

Less Common: Angioedema.

Rare: Neuroparalytic events.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with: Other vaccines and immunoglobulins – these can influence the ability of vaccines to
induce an immune response (give a live vaccine on the same day or not < 4 weeks apart from another live vaccine).

Avoid concomitant use with: Anti-infectives – avoid giving live vaccines with anti-infectives, especially if they are
active against the organism in the vaccines, as the effectiveness of vaccines may be reduced, preventing an
immune response.

Immunosuppressive agents and during radiation therapy – these may interfere with the active antibody response to
rabies vaccine, and increase the risk of the patient developing rabies.

Mechanism of Action

Purified vaccine containing inactivated rabies virus cultivated in vero cells.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3