April 25, 2026, 2:34:55 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

REGULAR INSULIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

A10AB01

ANATOMICAL

Alimentary Tract and Metabolism

THERAPEUTIC

Drugs Used in Diabetes

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Insulin and Analogues

CHEMICAL CLASS

Insulins and analogues for injection, fast-acting

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › IV › SC › 100 IU/mL solution for injection, 3 mL pre-filled syringe (Rx)

IM › IV › SC › 100 IU/mL solution/suspension for injection, 5 mL vial (Rx)

IM › IV › SC › 100 IU/mL solution/suspension for injection, 10 mL vial (Rx)

Dosage

IM / IV / SC › 100 IU/mL solution for injection, 3 mL pre-filled syringe (Rx)

SUBCUTANEOUS, INTRAVENOUS, AND INTRAMUSCULAR Diabetes mellitus: by SC, IM, IV injection or IV infusion (IV
route is reserved for urgent treatment, e.g., DKA and for fine control in serious illness and peri-operatively),
according to requirements. Dose of insulin and regimen depend on the individual treatment endpoints and are
adjusted according to (capillary) blood glucose monitoring. Dose of human insulin is always expressed in units. Do
NOT abbreviate the word “unit.” One unit of human insulin, which is contained in 0.03846 mg of the first
International Standard (1986) is equivalent to the amount of insulin required to reduce the concentration of blood
glucose to 45 mg/dL in a fasting rabbit. NOTE: Diabetes self-management education (DSME) is essential to
maximize the effectiveness of therapy.

Administration

IM / IV / SC › 100 IU/mL solution for injection, 3 mL pre-filled syringe (Rx)

For SC, IV, and IM administration, shake the suspension gently before withdrawing a dose. Do NOT use if solution is
viscous or cloudy. Use only if clear and colorless. Follow manufacturer’s instructions.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:34:55 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Hepatic Impairment: Insulin requirements may be decreased in patients with hepatic impairment.
Renal Impairment: In mild-to-moderate impairment, reduce dose. In severe impairment, refer to a specialist
CrCl 10-50 mL/min - Administer at 75% of normal dose and monitor glucose closely
CrCl <10 mL/min - Administer at 25% to 50% of normal dose and monitor glucose closely

Indications

Management of diabetes mellitus; diabetic ketoacidosis.

Contraindications

Hypoglycemia

Precautions

Acute illness or conditions, e.g., trauma, Myocardial Infarction; Infections; Stroke; Coma; Infections; Diabetic
ketoacidosis; Surgery; Renal impairment; Exercise; Pregnancy

SKILLED TASKS: Driving may be hazardous when hypoglycemic since awareness is impaired. Check blood glucose
concentration before driving, and at intervals of approximately 2 hours when on long journeys.

MONITORING: The facility should have monitoring at the point of care. Blood glucose concentration varies
throughout the day. Diabetes patients should aim to maintain their blood glucose concentration between 4- 9
mmol/L for most of the time [ideally, 80-130 mg/dL (4-7 mmol/L before meals and <180 mg/dL (<9 mmol/L) after
meals]. Prevent blood glucose concentration from falling below 72mg/dL (4 mmol/L) because of the risk of
hypoglycemia. Glycated hemoglobin concentration (HbA1c) should be <7% (53 mmol/L).

STABILITY AND STORAGE: Insulin preparations should be stored in a refrigerator at 2-8oC, protected from light and
not allowed to freeze. Patients should be advised not to expose their vials or cartridges to excessive heat or
sunlight.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Hypoglycemia
Less Common: Edema, lipodystrophy (either as lipoatrophy or lipohypertrophy) at the site of injection, weight gain.
Rare: Localized reactions (e.g., redness, swelling, itching), generalized hypersensitivity reactions (including rash
over the whole body, shortness of breath, wheezing, hypotension, tachycardia, sweating, or very rarely, anaphylactic
reactions).

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:34:55 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Insulin:
ACE Inhibitors, e.g., Enalapril, Beta Blockers, e.g.,Atenolol, Propranolol (hypoglycemic effect), Alcohol(inhibits
hepatic glucose output; decreases blood glucose concentratin)

Increases risk of adverse effects of Insulin:
Alcohol (hypoglycemia; masks warning symptoms), Beta Blockers, e.g., Atenolol, Propranolol (masks warning signs of
hypoglycemia), Drugs increasing blood glucose concentration, e.g., Glucocorticoids, Antipsychotics, Calcineurin
Inhibitors, High-dose Thiazide Diuretics (alters diabetes control of insulin) Nifedipine (impairs glucose tolerance),
Thiazolidinediones (increases risk of edema and heart failure)

Reduces therapeutic effect of Insulin:
Drugs increasing blood glucose concentration, e.g., Glucocorticoids, Antipsychotics, Calcineurin Inhibitors, High-
dose Thiazide Diuretics

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Insulin:
Contraceptives, Oral, e.g., Levonorgestrel, Medroxyprogesterone (Corticosteroids, e.g., Dexamethasone,
Hydrocortisone, Prednisolone; Diuretics, e.g., Furosemide, Hydrochlorothiazide)

Mechanism of Action

A short-acting, regular crystalline zinc insulin, which is prepared as a sterile, clear aqueous solution. It contains a
polypeptide hormone structurally identical to the human insulin synthesized through rDNA technology for treatment
of diabetes.

Regular or soluble insulin is the most appropriate form of insulin for use in diabetic emergencies and during surgery,
and in these cases, are typically given in an intravenous infusion (insulin drip). When injected IV, it has a very short
half-life of only about 5 minutes and its effect disappears within 30 minutes.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 3 of 3