April 25, 2026, 2:35:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

REMDESIVIR

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J05AB16

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antivirals for Systemic Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Directly Acting Agents

CHEMICAL CLASS

Nucleosides and nucleotides excl. reverse transcriptase inhibitors

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV INFUSION › 100 mg Lyophilized powder for Solution for IV Infusion (Rx)

Dosage

IV INFUSION › 100 mg Lyophilized powder for Solution for IV Infusion (Rx)

For intravenous infusion, ADULTS and ADOLESCENTS (>12 years old and weighing >40kg), to infuse a loading dose
of 200 mg in Day 1, followed by once-daily maintenance doses of 100 mg via IV infusion from Day 2 to 5.

Administration

IV INFUSION › 100 mg Lyophilized powder for Solution for IV Infusion (Rx)

Remdesivir must be prepared and administered under the supervision of a healthcare provider and must only be
administered via intravenous infusion. Prepare diluted solutionunder aseptic conditions and on same day as
administration Determine the patient's eGFR before initiating Remdesivir treatment. Monitoring while receiving
the treatment is also advisable.

Dose Adjustment

The recommended treatment duration for patients requiring mechanical ventilation is 5 days. If a patient does not
demostrate clinical improvement, treatment may be extended for up to 5 additional days for a total treatment of
duration up to 10 days

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:35:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

For adults and pediatric patients (12 years of age and older and weighing at least 40 kg) for the treatment of
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID 19) requiring hospitalization.

Contraindications

Contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to Remdesivir or any components of the
product

Precautions

Hypersensitivity including infusion-related and anaphylactic reactions.

Increased risk of transaminase elevations

Adverse Drug Reactions

Less common: Hypersensitivity reactions, Generalized seisures and Rash.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:35:05 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

concomitant use with Chloroquine phosphate or Hyroxychloroquine, risk of reduced antiviral activity.

Mechanism of Action

Remdesivir is an antiviral drug with activity against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2),
Remdesivir is an inhibitor of the SARS-CoV-2 RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), which is essential for viral
replication. Remdesivir is an adenosine nucleotide prodrug that distributes into cells where it is metabolized to a
nucleoside monophosphate intermediate by carboxyesterase 1 and/or cathepsin A, depending upon the cell type.
The nucleoside monophosphate is subsequently phosphorylated by cellular kinases to form the pharmacologically
active nucleoside triphosphate metabolite (GS-443902). Remdesivir triphosphate (RDV-TP) acts as an analog of
adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and competes with high selectivity (3.65-fold) over the natural ATP substrate for
incorporation into nascent RNA chains by the SARS-CoV-2 RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, which results in delayed
chain termination (position i+3) during replication of the viral RNA. In a biochemical assay assessing RDV-TP
incorporation by the MERS-CoV RdRp complex, RDV-TP inhibited RNA synthesis with an IC50 value of 0.032 µM. RDV-
TP can also inhibit viral RNA synthesis following its incorporation into the template viral RNA as a result of read-
through by the viral polymerase that may occur at higher nucleotide concentrations. When remdesivir nucleotide is
present in the viral RNA template, the efficiency of incorporation of the complementary natural nucleotide is
compromised, thereby inhibiting viral RNA synthesis. Remdesivir triphosphate is a weak inhibitor of mammalian DNA
and RNA polymerases, including human mitochondrial RNA polymerase.

Page 3 of 3