April 25, 2026, 2:35:50 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

RIBAVIRIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J05AP01

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antivirals for Systemic Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Directly Acting Agents

CHEMICAL CLASS

Antivirals for Treatment of HCV Infections

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 600 mg Tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 500 mg Tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 200 mg Tablet (Rx)

Dosage

Administration

Dose Adjustment

Renal impairment:
CrCl ≥50 mL/min: dose adjustment not necessary.
CrCl <50 mL/min: use is contraindicated.

Hepatic impairment:
Avoid use in decompensated hepatic disease; contraindicated in HCV-HIV co-infected patients with cirrhosis and
baseline Child-Pugh score ≥6.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:35:50 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Treatment of chronic hepatitis C (HCV)

Contraindications

Women who are or may become pregnant; male partners of pregnant women, autoimmune hepatitis,
hemoglobinopathies; creatinine clearance <50 mL/minute.

Precautions

HCV treatment regimens (Do not use ribavirin alone for treatment of chronic HCV infection); Fetal/neonatal morbidity
and mortality (Teratogenic and/or embroyocidal. Exercise extreme care to avoid pregnancy in female patients and in
female partners of male patients);
Hematologic effects (Hemolytic anemia reported in patients receiving oral ribavirin in conjunction with interferon
alfa; anemia usually occurs 1-2 weeks after initiation of therapy);
Cardiovascular effects (Fatal and nonfatal MI reported in patients with anemia due to oral ribavirin.);
Hepatic failure (Patients with chronic HCV infection and cirrhosis may be at risk of hepatic decompensation and death
during interferon alfa therapy);
Pancreatitis (Temporarily interrupt oral ribavirin in patients with manifestations of pancreatitis.);
Dental and periodontal disorders;
Pregnancy (Take extreme care to avoid pregnancy).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Fatigue, headache, hemolysis, myalgia, nausea, rigors, fever, insomnia, depression, decreased Hgb,
hyperbilirubinemia, arthralgia, alopecia, irritability, musculoskeletal pain, rash, anorexia, dizziness, pruritus, flu-like
syndrome, dyspnea, nasal congestion, dyspepsia, impaired concentration, thrombocytopenia, sinusitis, vomiting,
emotional liability, and decreased WBC.

Less Common: Hemolytic anemia, weakness, chest pain, taste perversion, and nervousness.

Rare: Dehydration, hearing impairment, hearing loss, retinal detachment, pure red cell aplasia, serious skin
reactions, liver and renal graft rejection, homicidal ideation, and growth inhibition in pediatric patients.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:35:50 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:

Increases toxicity of the following drugs:
Lamivudine, Tobramycin (Inhalation)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases toxicity of Abacavir
Decreases effects of Zidovudine

Mechanism of Action

Although not completely understood, Ribarivin appears to interfere with RNA and DNA synthesis and subsequently
inhibit protein synthesis and viral replication.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

X

Page 3 of 3