April 24, 2026, 11:20:47 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

RIFAMPICIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J04AB02

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antimycobacterials

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Drugs for Treatment of Tuberculosis

CHEMICAL CLASS

Drugs for Tuberculosis

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › [WATCH] 300 mg tablet/capsule (Rx)

ORAL › [WATCH] 450 mg tablet/capsule (Rx)

ORAL › [WATCH] 600 mg tablet/capsule (Rx)

ORAL › [WATCH] 200 mg/5 mL suspension, 120 mL (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › [WATCH] 300 mg tablet/capsule (Rx)

Tuberculosis, by mouth, ADULT, 10 mg/kg (range: 8-12 mg/kg) daily, not to exceed 600 mg daily; CHILD, 15 mg/kg
(range: 10-20 mg/kg) daily; not to exceed 600 mg daily. Leprosy, by mouth, ADULT, 600 mg

Administration

ORAL › [WATCH] 300 mg tablet/capsule (Rx)

Take dose at least 30 minutes before a meal (absorption is reduced when taken with food).

Page 1 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:20:47 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Hepatic Impairment:
Dose reduction is warranted (maximum, 8 mg/kg/day).

Indications

Treatment of tuberculosis in combination with isoniazid, pyrazinamide and ethambutol, treatment of leprosy using
combination therapy

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to rifamycins, or any component of the formulation; jaundice.

Precautions

Alcohol dependency, the elderly, and in prolonged therapy; daily alcohol intake (may increase the risk of druginduced
hepatotoxicity); renal impairment; hepatic impairment (impaired elimination; monitor liver function); porphyria; it
discolors soft lenses.

IMPORTANT:
Advise patient on hormonal contraceptives to use additional means (effectiveness is reduced); alternative family
planning advice shall be offered.

LIVER DISORDERS:
Monitor liver function and blood count in liver disorder. Patients or their caregivers should be told how to recognize
signs of liver disorders and advised to discontinue treatment and seek immediate medical attention if symptoms
such as persistent nausea, vomiting, malaise, or jaundice develop.

Pregnancy (first trimester: very high doses are teratogenic in animal studies; third trimester: risk of neonatal
bleeding may be increased); and breastfeeding (amount too small to be harmful; may cause loose bowel movement in
babies).

NOTE:
Resumption of rifampicin treatment after a long interval may cause serious immunological reactions, resulting in
renal impairment, hemolysis, or thrombocytopenia – discontinue permanently if serious adverse effects occur.

Page 2 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:20:47 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Anorexia, cramps, diarrhea, epigastric distress, flatulence, increased hepatic enzymes, nausea, orangered coloration
of body fluids (urine, tears, saliva and sputum), pancreatitis, rash, staining of soft contact lenses, vomiting.

Less Common:
Ataxia, behavioral changes, dizziness,edema, fatigue, flu-like syndrome (characterized by fever, chills, myalgia),
flushing, headache, heartburn, menstrual disturbances, numbness.

Rare:
Acute renal failure, cerebral hemorrhage, C. difficileassociated disease, collapse, exfoliative dermatitis, hemolytic
anemia, hepatitis, jaundice, leukopenia, myopathy, pemphigoid reactions, psychosis, respiratory symptoms, shock,
thrombocytopenic purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis.

Drug Interactions

NOTE:
Enzyme induction: accelerates the metabolism of various substrates, thus possibly decreasing their effects.

Monitor closely with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Azole antifungal e.g. ketoconazole Beta blockers e.g., metoprolol, propranolol Cotrimoxazole, Digoxin, Doxycycline,
Theophylline

Increases metabolism of the following drugs:
Corticosteroids e.g., hydrocortisone, prednisone, prednisolone; Thyroid hormones e.g. Thyroxine

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces absorption of Rifampicin:
Antacids (e.g., aluminum and magnesium hydroxide)

Reduces therapeutic effect of Oral Contraceptives

Increases metabolism of Praziquantel

Mechanism of Action

Antimycobacterial drugs are used in the treatment of diseases caused by members of the Mycobacterium genus,
including tuberculosis (TB) and leprosy.
Combination chemotherapy is essential to kill heterogeneous populations of bacterial cells located in different
conditions within the host, and to prevent drug resistance.

Page 3 of 4



April 24, 2026, 11:20:47 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 4 of 4