April 25, 2026, 2:37:21 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

RISPERIDONE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N05AX08

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psycholeptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antipsychotics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 1 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 2 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 3 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 4 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 1 mg orodispersible tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 2 mg orodispersible tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 1 mg/mL oral solution, 100 mL (Rx)

IM › 25 mg MR powder for suspension, vial + 2 mL diluent in pre-filled syringe (Rx)

IM › 37.5 mg MR powder for suspension, vial + 2 mL diluent in pre-filled syringe (Rx)

IM › 50 mg prolonged-release powder for suspension for injection + 2 mL diluent (Rx)

This should not be administered to patients with dementia- related psychoses because of high risk of
cardiovascular and infectious- related deaths.

Page 1 of 5



April 25, 2026, 2:37:21 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

ORAL › 1 mg tablet (Rx)

Acute mania/mixed mania, monotherapy and adjunct to lithium or valproate, by mouth, ADULT, initially 2-3 mg once
daily or in two divided doses. Slowly increase by 1 mg once daily each day until desired efficacy is reached up to a
maximum of 6 mg once daily, CHILD≥10 years, initially 0.5 mg once daily or in two divided doses. Slowly increase by
0.5-1 mg once daily each day until desired efficacy is reached up to a maximum of 6 mg once daily, with doses >2.5
mg daily not conferring additional benefit and are associated with increased adverse events. Autism-related
irritability, by mouth, CHILD≥5 years (15 to <20 kg), initially 0.25 mg once daily or in two divided doses. Increase dose
to 0.5 mg once daily after at least 4 days and maintain dose for at least 14 days. If response is insufficient, slowly
increase dose by 0.25 mg once daily not earlier than every 2 weeks up to a maximum of 3 mg once daily or in two
divided doses, CHILD≥5 years (≥20 kg), initially 0.5 mg once daily or in two divided doses. Increase dose to 1 mg
once daily after at least 4 days and maintain dose for at least 14 days. If response is insufficient, slowly increase
dose by 0.5 mg once daily not earlier than every 2 weeks up to a maximum of 3 mg once daily or in two divided
doses. Bipolar maintenance, monotherapy and adjunct to lithium or valproate, by intramuscular injection, ADULT,
initially stabilize service user/patient on oral risperidone. Administer 12.5-25 mg into the deltoid or gluteal muscle.
Continue oral risperidone for 3 weeks before discontinuing and administer maintenance doses based on the oral
dose the service user/patient is stabilized on: =3 mg by mouth once daily = 25 mg by intramuscular injection every
2 weeks 3-=5 mg by mouth once daily = 37.5 mg by intramuscular injection every 2 weeks >5 mg by mouth once daily
= 50 mg by intramuscular injection every 2 weeks. Continue therapy at the lowest effective dose and adjust dose
depending on clinical response and tolerability at intervals of no more than 4 weeks. Delaying relapse in
schizophrenia, by mouth, ADULT, initially 1 mg/day in two divided doses. Slowly increase by 1 mg once daily each day
until desired efficacy is reached up to a maximum of 6 mg once daily. Clinical benefit and risk of EPS beyond 6 mg
usually does not warrant exceeding 6 mg once daily up to 16 mg once daily. Psychosis, by mouth, initialy 1 mg daily,
gradually increase to 2-6 mg daily; for a maximum of 10 mg. Other psychotic disorders, by mouth, ADULT, initially 1
mg/day in two divided doses. Slowly increase by 1 mg once daily each day until desired efficacy is reached up to a
maximum of 6 mg once daily. Clinical benefit and risk of EPS beyond 6 mg usually does not warrant exceeding 6 mg
once daily up to 16 mg once daily. Schizophrenia, by mouth, ADULT, initially 1 mg/day in two divided doses. Slowly
increase by 1 mg once daily each day until desired efficacy is reached up to a maximum of 6 mg once daily. Clinical
benefit and risk of EPS beyond 6 mg usually does not warrant exceeding 6 mg once daily up to 16 mg once daily,
CHILD≥13 years, initially 0.5 mg once daily or in two divided doses. Slowly increase by 0.51 mg once daily each day
until desired efficacy is reached up to a maximum of 6 mg once daily, by intramuscular injection, ADULT, initially
stabilize service patient on oral risperidone. Administer 12.5-25 mg into the deltoid or gluteal muscle. Continue
oral risperidone for 3 weeks before discontinuing and administer maintenance doses based on the oral dose the
service user/patient is stabilized on: ≤3 mg by mouth once daily = 25 mg by intramuscular injection every 2 weeks
3-≤5 mg by mouth once daily = 37.5 mg by intramuscular injection every 2 weeks >5 mg by mouth once daily = 50 mg
by intramuscular injection every 2 weeks. Continue therapy at the lowest effective dose and adjust dose
depending on clinical response and tolerability at intervals of no more than 4 weeks. NOTE: Antipsychotics should
not be discontinued abruptly because of the possibility of withdrawal and rebound psychosis; discontinuation or
cross-titration should be done gradually to minimize the potential of withdrawal, rebound psychosis and
extrapyramidal side effects, cholinergic rebound, rebound insomnia, and unwanted pregnancy, unless safety
concerns require a more rapid withdrawal.

Administration

ORAL › 1 mg tablet (Rx)

May be taken with or without food. Intramuscular injection into the deltoid or gluteal muscle.

Page 2 of 5



April 25, 2026, 2:37:21 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Initially 0.5 mg twice daily. Slowly increase by 0.5 mg twice daily and increase dose not more than once a week for
doses above 1.5 mg twice daily.

Renal Impairment:
Initially 0.5 mg by mouth twice daily for the first week. Increase to 1 mg by mouth twice daily on the second week.
Slowly increase doses beyond 1.5 mg by mouth twice daily at intervals of 1 week or longer.
For long-acting injectable formulation, do not administer unless service user/patient has demonstrated tolerability
to at least 2 mg by mouth once daily or in divided doses. An initial dose of 12.5 mg may be more appropriate.
Maintenance doses should be 25 mg every two weeks, with oral risperidone being continued for 3 weeks after the
first injection.

Hepatic Impairment:
Initially 0.5 mg by mouth twice daily for the first week. Increase to 1 mg by mouth twice daily on the second week.
Slowly increase doses beyond 1.5 mg by mouth twice daily at intervals of 1 week or longer.
For long-acting injectable formulation, do not administer unless service user/patient has demonstrated tolerability
to at least 2 mg by mouth once daily or in divided doses. An initial dose of 12.5 mg may be more appropriate.
Maintenance doses should be 25 mg every two weeks, with oral risperidone being continued for 3 weeks after the
first injection.

Indications

Treatment of schizophrenia; delaying relapse in schizophrenia; other psychotic disorders; treatment of acute and
long term mania/mixed mania (monotherapy and adjunct to lithium or valproate); autism-related irritability in
children; bipolar maintenance (monotherapy and adjunct to lithium or valproate)

Page 3 of 5



April 25, 2026, 2:37:21 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

No information found

Precautions

WARNING: NOT approved for treatment of dementiarelated psychosis (high risk of cardiovascular and infectious-
related deaths).

Pregnancy: There is a risk of abnormal muscle movements and withdrawal symptoms in newborns during the third
trimester.

Hypersensitivity

STORAGE AND STABILITY: Tablet: store between 20-25°C. Excursions permitted to 15-30°C. Protect from light and
moisture. Orodispersible tablet: No special storage conditions. Oral solution: store between 15-25°C. Excursions
permitted to 15-30°C. Protect from light and freezing. Long-acting injectable: The entire dose pack should be stored
in the refrigerator between 2–8°C and protected from light. If refrigeration is unavailable, it can be stored at
temperatures not exceeding 25°C for no more than 7 days prior to administration. Do not expose unrefrigerated
product to temperatures above 25°C.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Anxiety, appetite changes, arthralgia, depression, dose-dependent extrapyramidal symptoms, dose-
related hyperprolactinemia, dose-dependent dizziness, insomnia, anxiety, sedation, epistaxis, hypertension,
infection, malaise, myalgia, edema, respiratory disorders, sleep disorders, toothache, urinary disorders, weight gain,
sedation, dizziness, hypotension, motor side effect, dose-dependent extrapyramidal symptoms, dose- dependent
hyperprolactinemia

Less Common: Alopecia, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, taste disturbances, tinnitus, visual disorders.

Rare: Inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, intestinal obstruction, intra-operative floppy iris syndrome,
pancreatitis, pulmonary embolism, rhabdomyolysis.

NOTE: Patients taking this drug may experience weight gain and/or sedation.

Page 4 of 5



April 25, 2026, 2:37:21 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces the therapeutic effects of the following drugs: Amphetamines, Dopamine agonists, Levodopa

Enhances the therapeutic effects of the following drugs: Antihypertensives [except Guanethidine]
Increases therapeutic effects of Risperidone: Anticholinergics

Increases risk adverse/toxic effect of Risperidone: Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, Metoclopramide, Valproate
(increase the risk of generalized edema with and the clearance of risperidone)

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
CNS depressants, Methylphenidate Iohexol, Iomeprol, Iopamidol (seizures) Mequitazine (arrhythmogenic effect) QTc-
prolonging agents
SSRIs (psychomotor impairment)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Other Antipsychotics (increased hospitalization rates and length of stay; increased mortality)

Mechanism of Action

Risperidone is a benzisoxazole atypical antipsychotic that gains typical properties such as extrapyramidal symptoms
when given in higher doses. It has a moderate risk of inducing weight gain and dyslipidemia.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 5 of 5