April 25, 2026, 2:37:35 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

RITUXIMAB

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

L01XC02

ANATOMICAL

Antineoplastic and Immunomodulating Agents

THERAPEUTIC

Antineoplastic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Antineoplastic Agents

CHEMICAL CLASS

Monoclonal Antibodies

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 10 mg/mL, 10 mL vial (Rx)

IV › 10 mg/mL, 50 mL vial (Rx)

Dosage

Page 1 of 7



April 25, 2026, 2:37:35 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IV › 10 mg/mL, 10 mL vial (Rx)

Refer to institutional guideline on administration, if available. For IV infusion only. For initial IV infusion, start at a
rate of 50 mg/hour. If there is no reaction, increase the rate by 50 mg/hour increments every 30 minutes, to a
maximum rate of 400 mg/hour. For subsequent IV infusions, Standard infusion rate: If patient tolerated initial
infusion, start at 100 mg/hour. If there is no reaction, increase the rate by 100 mg/hour increments every 30
minutes, to a maximum rate of 400 mg/hour. Accelerated infusion rate (90 minutes): For patients with previously
untreated follicular NHL and diffuse large B-cell NHL who are receiving a corticosteroid concurrently, with a
circulating lymphocyte count <5000/mm3, or have no significant cardiovascular disease, after tolerance has been
established (no grade 3 or 4 infusion-related event) at the recommended infusion rate in cycle 1, a rapid infusion
rate may be used beginning with cycle 2. Administer dose over 90 minutes, with 20% of the dose administered
over the first 30 minutes and the remaining 80% is given over 60 minutes, after the daily corticosteroid,
acetaminophen, and diphenhydramine. If the 90-minute infusion in cycle 2 is tolerated, the same rate may be used
for the remainder of the treatment regimen (through cycles 6 or 8). Do NOT administer by IV push or bolus. If a
reaction occurs, slow or stop the infusion. Once reaction abates, restart infusion at 50% of the previous rate.
Discontinue infusion in the event of serious or life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias. NOTE: Pretreatment with
acetaminophen and an antihistamine is recommended. Anti-hyperuricemic therapy and aggressive hydration are
recommended for patients with a high tumor burden or lymphocytes >25,000/mm3. In patients with CLL,
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP) and antiherpetic viral prophylaxis is recommended during treatment (and
for up to 12 months following treatment). In granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis
(MPA), PCP prophylaxis is recommended during and for 6 months after treatment.

Page 2 of 7



April 25, 2026, 2:37:35 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

CLL, by slow IV infusion, ADULT, in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, 375 mg/m2 the day prior to
fludarabine / cyclophosphamide in cycle 1, then 500mg/m2 on day 1 (every 28 days) of cycles 2–6. Fludarabine dose: 25
mg/m2 IV per day for 3 days, Cyclophosphamide dose: 250 mg/IV per day for 3 days.

Granulomatosis with polyangiitis, by slow IV infusion, ADULT, in combination with methylprednisolone IV for 1–3 days
followed by daily prednisone, 375 mg/m2 once weekly for 4 doses.

Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL), low-grade or follicular CD20-positive, B-cell, previously untreated, by slow IV
infusion, ADULT, 375 mg/m2 once weekly for 4 or 8 doses. May give IV formulation at first cycle, followed by
subcutaneous formulation injected at a fixed dose of 1400mg per cycle for up to 8 cycles. As maintenance for
previously untreated follicular lymphoma who have responded to induction treatment, 1400mg subcutaneously once
every 2 months (starting 2 months after the last dose of induction therapy) until disease progression or a maximum
period of 2 years.

NHL, low-grade or follicular CD20-positive, B-cell, relapsed/ refractory, by slow IV infusion, ADULT, 375 mg/m2 once
weekly for 4 or 8 doses. May give IV formulation at first cycle, followed by subcutaneous formulation injected at a
fixed dose of 1400 mg per cycle for up to 8 cycles. As maintenance for relapsed/ refractory follicular lymphoma who
have responded to induction treatment, 1400 mg subcutaneously once every 3 months (starting 3 months after the
last dose of induction therapy) until disease progression or a maximum period of 2 years.

NHL, diffuse large B-cell, in combination with CHOP therapy. Rituximab given by slow IV infusion, 375 mg/m2, followed
by rituximab subcutaneous formulation injected at a fixed dose of 1400 mg per cycle in total of 8 cycles.

NHL, CD20-positive, B-cell, non-progressing, low-grade, after 6–8 cycles of first line CVP, by slow IV infusion, ADULT,
375 mg/m2, once weekly for 4 doses every 6 months for a maximum of 16 doses.

NHL, by slow IV infusion, ADULT, in combination with ibritumomab, 250 mg/m2 IV day 1, repeat in 7–9 days with
ibritumomab.

NHL, CD20-positive, mature B-cell lymphoma, Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, CHILDREN and ADOLESCENTS, 375
mg/m2 prior to consolidation therapy (frequency and number of doses depend upon treatment protocol).

Microscopic polyangiitis (MPA), by slow IV infusion, ADULT, in combination with methylprednisolone IV for 1–3 days
followed by daily prednisone, 375 mg/m2 once weekly for 4 doses.

Pemphigus vulgaris, moderate-to-severe, Initial: 1000 mg IV once then repeat dose in 2 weeks used in combination
with tapering course of glucocorticoids; Maintenance: 500 mg at month 12 and every 6 months thereafter or based
on clinical evaluation; Treatment relapse: 1000 mg IV and consider resuming or increasing glucocorticoid dose based
on clinical evaluation.

Rheumatoid Arthritis, rituximab only, 1000 mg IV infusion (not to exceed 1000 mg/dose), repeat after 2 weeks (2
infusions separated by 2 weeks is 1 course). Repeat course every 24 weeks or based on clinical evaluation (but no
sooner than 16 weeks); use in combination with methotrexate.

Page 3 of 7



April 25, 2026, 2:37:35 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Treatment of CD20-positive non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas (NHL); treatment of CD20-positive chronic lymphocytic
leukemia (CLL); treatment of granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA; Wegener’s granulomatosis); treatment of
microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)

Page 4 of 7



April 25, 2026, 2:37:35 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Type 1 hypersensitivity or anaphylactic reaction to murine proteins, Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell proteins, or any
component of the formulation; current or a history of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML)

Precautions

WARNING: Can result in serious, including fatal, infusion reactions. Deaths within 24 hours of infusion have been
reported. Carefully monitor patients during infusions. Discontinue when severe reactions occur and administer
medical treatment for grade 3 or 4 infusion reactions.
Severe, sometimes fatal, mucocutaneous reactions (e.g., paraneoplastic pemphigus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome,
lichenoid dermatitis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, vesiculobullous dermatitis) have been reported.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation can occur, in some cases resulting in fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure, and
death. Screen all patients for HBV infection by measuring HBsAg and anti-HBc before treatment initiation. Monitor
patients during and after treatment. Discontinue in the event of HBV reactivation.
JC virus infection resulting in progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) and death can occur.

WARNING: Hazardous agent. Use appropriate precautions for handling and disposal.

Bowel obstruction or perforation (e.g. abdominal pain, bowel obstruction, perforation; complaints of abdominal pain
or repeated vomiting should be evaluated, especially if early in the treatment course)

Cardiovascular disease (use with caution; discontinue if serious cardiac arrhythmia occurs); respiratory disease (use
with caution in patients)

Hepatitis B virus reactivation (monitor patients for clinical and laboratory signs of hepatitis or HBV during and several
months after treatment; reactivation may occur even in those with previously resolved HBV infection, and up to 24
months after therapy discontinuation; use with caution in those with evidence of prior HBV infection)

Infections (serious and potentially fatal bacterial, fungal, and either new or reactivated viral infections may occur
during treatment and after; monitor immunoglobulin levels as necessary; discontinue in patients who develop other
serious infections and initiate appropriateantiinfectivetreatment; use is not recommended in active infection)

Infusion reactions (e.g. hypotension, angioedema, bronchospasm, hypoxia, urticaria, pulmonary infiltrates, ARDS,
myocardial infarction, ventricular fibrillation, cardiogenic shock, or anaphylaxis; closely monitor patients with history
of prior cardiopulmonary reactions, with preexisting cardiac or pulmonary conditions, or with high numbers of
circulating malignant cells, i.e., >25,000/mm3; perform cardiacmonitoring during and after the infusion in patients
who develop clinically significant arrhythmias or who have a history of arrhythmia or angina; mild-to-moderate
infusion-related reactions, e.g., chills, fever, or rigors, occur frequently and are typically managed through slowing or
interrupting the infusion; due to the potential for hypotension, consider withholding antihypertensives 12 hours
prior to treatment)

Mucocutaneous reactions (discontinue in severe mucocutaneous skin reactions); progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy (e.g. confusion or disorientation, motor weakness or hemiparesis, altered vision or speech,
and poor motor coordination; promptly evaluate patients with neurological changes; discontinue in patients who
develop PML; consider reduction or discontinuation of concurrent chemotherapy orimmunosuppressants)

Renal toxicity (may be fatal; discontinue with increasing serum creatinine or oliguria);

Page 5 of 7



April 25, 2026, 2:37:35 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Tumor lysis syndrome (may lead to acute renal failure requiring dialysis, may be fatal; hyperkalemia, hypocalcemia,
hyperuricemia, and/or hyperphosphatemia may occur; correct electrolyte abnormalities; monitor renal function and
hydration status).

Elderly (use with caution; at higher risk of cardiac and pulmonary adverse events).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Abdominal pain, anemia, angioedema, anxiety, arthralgia, bronchospasm, back pain, chills, cough,
cytopenias (may be prolonged), diarrhea, dizziness, dyspepsia, dyspnea, dyspnea, epistaxis, fatigue, flushing,
headache, positive human antichimeric antibody (HACA), fever, hyperglycemia, hypertension, hypotension, infection,
infusion-related reactions (decreases with subsequent infusions), night sweats, insomnia, increased LDH,
leukopenia, lymphopenia, migraine, muscle spasm, myalgia, nausea, neuropathy, neutropenia, neutropenic fever,
paresthesia, peripheral edema, pruritus, rash, rhinitis, sinusitis, throat irritation, pain, thrombocytopenia, upper
respiratory tract infection, urticaria, vomiting, weakness, weight gain

Less Common: Acute renal failure, anaphylactoid reaction or anaphylaxis, angina, aplastic anemia, arrhythmia, bowel
obstruction or perforation, ARDS, bronchiolitis obliterans, cardiac failure, MI, cardiogenic shock, disease progression
(Kaposi’s sarcoma), encephalomyelitis, fatal infusion-related reactions, fulminant hepatitis, gastrointestinal
perforation, hemolytic anemia, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hepatitis B reactivation, hypogammaglobulinemia
(prolonged), optic neuritis, interstitial pneumonitis, hyperviscosity syndrome (Waldenström’s macroglobulinemia),
hypoxia, laryngeal edema, lichenoid dermatitis, lupus-like syndrome, marrow hypoplasia, mucositis, mucocutaneous
reaction, pleuritis, neutropenia, pancytopenia (prolonged), pure red cell aplasia, paraneoplastic pemphigus, renal
toxicity, pneumonia, pneumonitis, polyarticular arthritis, polymyositis, posterior reversible encephalopathy
syndrome (PRES), progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), serum sickness, Stevens-Johnson syndrome,
toxic epidermal necrolysis, reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS), supraventriculararrhythmia,
systemic vasculitis, tuberculosis reactivation, tumor lysis syndrome, uveitis, ventricular fibrillation, vasculitis
withrash, ventricular tachycardia, vesiculobullous dermatitis, viral reactivation (JC virus, cytomegalovirus, herpes
simplex virus, parvovirus B19, varicella zoster virus, West Nile virus, and hepatitis C), wheezing

Page 6 of 7



April 25, 2026, 2:37:35 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Rituximab: Trastuzumab (neutropenic effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Rituximab: Denosumab (serious infections)
Reduces diagnostic effect of Coccidioides immitis Skin Test

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Rituximab: Roflumilast (immunosuppressive effect)
Enhances therapeutic effect of Certolizumab Pegol (immunosuppressive effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Abatacept, Balimumab, Clozapine (agranulocytosis),
Leflunomide (hematologic toxicity such as pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, and/or thrombocytopenia), Natalizumab
(concurrent infection), Tofacitinib
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Rituximab:
Antihypertensives (hypotensive effect), Dipyrone (agranulocytosis; pancytopenia), Pimecrolimus, Tacrolimus
(Topical)
Reduces therapeutic effect of Rituximab: Echinacea
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: BCG (Intravesical), Vaccines (immune response; live virus
vaccines may progress to infection)

Mechanism of Action

A monoclonal antibody directed against the CD20 antigen on B lymphocytes. It binds to the antigen to initiate killing
of B-cells, delaying the progression of structural damage.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 7 of 7