April 25, 2026, 2:38:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ROPIVACAINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N01BB09

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Anesthetics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Anesthetics, Local

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › IV › 10 mg/mL, 10 mL ampule (as hydrochloride) (Rx)

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:38:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dosage

IM / IV › 10 mg/mL, 10 mL ampule (as hydrochloride) (Rx)

NOTE: Dose varies with anesthetic procedure, area to be anesthetized, vascularity of tissues, number of neuronal
segments to be blocked, depth of anesthesia, degree of muscle relaxation required, duration of anesthesia
desired, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient. Administer the smallest dose and
concentration required to produce the desired result. Caudal block, central nerve blocks or anesthesia, by
injection into the caudal end of the spinal canal, CHILD and INFANT, 0.5–1 mL/kg of a 0.2% (2 mg/mL) solution
(maximum volume, 25 mL). Epidural block, central nerve blocks or anesthesia, by epidural injection, ADOLESCENT,
CHILD, and INFANT, 0.7 mL/kg of a 0.2% (2 mg/mL) solution; for infants requiring repeat injections, a decreased
dose may be necessary to prevent drug accumulation; if at least 45 minutes since initial dose, reduce dose to 1/3
of the initial; if at least 90 minutes since initial dose, reduce dose to half of the initial; if additional doses are
necessary, reduce doses to half of the previous dose. Epidural, continuous infusion for central nerve blocks or
anesthesia, by epidural injection, INFANT <3 months, 0.5–1 mL/kg of a 0.2% (2 mg/mL) solution as a bolus injection;
a more dilute solution (e.g., 0.1% or 1 mg/mL) may be required to ensure adequate volume and minimize toxicity;
follow with continuous epidural infusion of 0.2% (2 mg/mL) solution at 0.2 mg/kg per hour; ADOLESCENT, CHILD,
and INFANT =3 months, 0.5– 1 mL/kg of a 0.2% (2 mg/mL) solution as a bolus injection, administered over 3–5
minutes, followed by continuous epidural infusion at 0.4 mg/kg per hour. Field block, surgical anesthesia, by
injection onto or near the nerve, ADULT, 1–40 mL of a 0.5% solution. Infiltration or minor nerve block,
postoperative pain management, by injection onto or near the nerve, ADULT, 1–100 mL of a 0.2% solution; or 1–40
mL of a 0.5% solution. Labor pain management, lumbar epidural, by epidural injection, ADULT, initially 10–20 mL of
a 0.2% solution; the continuous infusion dose is 6–14 mL/hour of a 0.2% solution with incremental injections of
10–15 mL/hour of a 0.2% solution. Lumbar epidural block, cesarean section, by epidural injection, ADULT, 20–30 mL
dose of a 0.5% solution; or 15–20 mL dose of a 0.75% solution. Lumbar epidural block, surgical anesthesia, by
epidural injection, ADULT, 15–30 mL of a 0.5% solution; 15–25 mL of a 0.75% solution; or 15 to 20 mL of a 1%
solution. Lumbar or thoracic epidural, postoperative pain management, by epidural injection, ADULT, the
continuous infusion dose is 6–14 mL/hour of a 0.2% solution. Major nerve block, surgical anesthesia, by injection
onto or near the nerve, ADULT, 35–50 mL of a 0.5% solution; or 10–40 mL of a 0.75% solution Peripheral nerve
block, postoperative pain management, by injection onto or near the nerve, ADULT, the continuous infusion dose
is 5–10 mL/hour of a 0.2% solution. Peripheral nerve blocks or local anesthesia, single injection, by injection onto
or near the nerve, ADOLESCENT, CHILD, and INFANT =6 months, extrapolate dosing based on adult experience
(maximum dose, 3 mg/kg per dose based on lean body mass); for infants <6 months, reduce dose by 30%; volume
of dose (mL/kg) and concentration of solution are site-specific based on anatomy and variable among patients and
procedure, using a 0.2%0.5% (2-5 mg/mL) solution, Site, Dose Head and neck blocks 0.05 mL/kg Maxillary nerve
0.15 mL/kg Brachial plexus 0.2–0.3 mL/kg Digital nerve 0.05 mL/kg Transversus abdominis plane 0.2–0.5 mL/kg
Ilioinguinal nerve 0.075 mL/kg Rectus sheath 0.1–0.2 mL/kg Femoral nerve 0.2–0.4 mL/kg Sciatic nerve 0.2–0.3
mL/kg Peripheral nerve blocks or local anesthesia, continuous peripheral nerve block infusion, by injection onto or
near the nerve, ADOLESCENT, CHILD, and INFANT =6 months, administer a bolus dose dependent on the nerve
catheter location using a 0.2% (2 mg/mL) solution; usual dose range is 0.5–1.32 mg/kg; higher bolus dose may be
required; for continuous peripheral nerve block infusion, 0.2–0.25 mg/kg per hour of a 0.2% (2 mg/mL) solution.
Spinal anesthesia, by intrathecal injection, ADOLESCENT =17 years, CHILD, and INFANT, 0.5 mg/kg of preservative-
free 0.5% (5 mg/mL) isobaric solution via the LP site at L 3–5 (maximum dose, 20 mg/dose). Thoracic epidural block,
surgical anesthesia, by epidural injection, ADULT, 5–15 mL dose of a 0.5% or 0.75% solution.

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:38:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IM / IV › 10 mg/mL, 10 mL ampule (as hydrochloride) (Rx)

Administered by local infiltration, epidural block and epidural infusion, or intermittent bolus. Do NOT administer
large volume of anesthetic rapidly, including emergency situations where rapid administration is necessary. Use
an infusion pump to slowly administer local anesthetics to or around surgical wound sites and/or near peripheral
nerves for postoperative analgesia. Avoid IV injections. Perform aspiration prior to administration. Re-position the
needle until no return of blood can be elicited by aspiration. However, absence of blood in the syringe does NOT
guarantee that IV injection has been avoided. IV regional anesthesia (Bier block) is not recommended. NOTE: A test
dose of short-acting local anesthetic containing epinephrine (e.g., 3–5 mL) is recommended prior administration.
Incremental ropivacaine dosing is recommended.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Use with caution. Initial dose reductions may be necessary.

Indications

Surgical anesthesia, labor pain management, postoperative pain management.

Contraindications

IV regional anesthesia (Bier block), obstetric paracervical block anesthesia.

Precautions

WARNING: Should be administered by clinicians well-trained in the diagnosis and management of emergencies that
may arise from the use of these agents. Resuscitative equipment, oxygen, and other resuscitative drugs should be
available for immediate use.

CNS toxicity (restlessness, anxiety, tinnitus, dizziness, blurred vision, tremors, depression, or drowsiness may be
early warning signs of CNS toxicity); Seizures (convulsions due to systemic toxicity leading to cardiac arrest have
been reported); Neurological and psychiatric disorders (may be at greater risk for toxicity). Chondrolysis (primarily of
the shoulder joint, has occurred following continuous intra-articular infusion; destruction of articular cartilage has
occurred when infused directly into the shoulder); Respiratory arrest (have been associated with rare occurrences
of sudden respiratory arrest). Cardiovascular disease (may be at greater risk for toxicity); Porphyria; Hepatic
impairment (undergoes hepatic metabolism; at an increased risk for developing toxic drug levels); Renal impairment
(renally excreted; may be at greater risk for toxicity); Acutely ill and debilitated patients (may be at greater risk for
toxicity).

Elderly (may be at greater risk for toxicity; cardiovascular adverse events may be age-related; more common in
patients >61 years of age); Children (use extra precaution to ensure accuracy and minimize potential toxicity).

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 2:38:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common and Less Common: Bradycardia, chest pain, hypertension, hypotension (dose-related; age-related),
tachycardia, anxiety, dizziness, headache, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, rigors, chills, shivering, pruritus, hypokalemia,
nausea, oral paresthesia, vomiting, oliguria, urinary retention, urinary tract infection, anemia, back pain, dyspnea,
fever.

Rare: Angioedema, apnea (associated with epidural block in head/neck region), bronchospasm, cardiac insufficiency,
chondrolysis (continuous intra-articular administration), circulatory shock, dyskinesia, hypersensitivity reaction,
seizure, hallucination, hyperthermia, laryngeal edema, myocardial infarction, skin rash, syncope, tinnitus, urticaria,
ventricular arrhythmia.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces diagnostic effect of Technetium Tc 99m Tilmanocept

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Blood Pressure-lowering Agents (antihypertensive effect);
Hypotension-associated Agents (hypotensive effect); Neuromuscular-blocking Agents e.g., Succinylcholine
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Ropivacaine: Hyaluronidase
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Bupivacaine (Liposomal)

Mechanism of Action

Ropivacaine is a local anesthetic of the amide type with analgesic activity. It binds to voltage-gated sodium ion
channels in the neuronal membrane resulting in a stabilization of the membrane and inhibition of depolarization. This
blocks nerve impulse generation and propagation, resulting in a reversible loss of sensation.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 4 of 4