April 25, 2026, 2:39:51 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

SACUBITRIL + VALSARTAN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

C09DX04

ANATOMICAL

Cardiovascular System

THERAPEUTIC

Agents Acting on the Renin-Angiotensin System

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Angiotensin II Antagonists, Combinations

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 24.3 mg + 25.7 mg Tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 48.6 mg + 51.4 mg Tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 97.2 mg + 102.8 mg Tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 24.3 mg + 25.7 mg Tablet (Rx)

Heart failure, by mouth, ADULT, 100 mg tab twice daily initially, double the dose after 2-4 weeks until target dose of
200 mg twice daily as tolerated.

Administration

ORAL › 24.3 mg + 25.7 mg Tablet (Rx)

Administer with or without food

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:39:51 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal impairment:
Mild to moderate- no dosage adjustment necessary.
Severe- reduce starting dose to 50 mg tab twice daily; double the dose every 2-4 weeks to target maintenance dose
of 200 mg twice daily as tolerated.

Hepatic impairment:
Mild- no dosage adjustment necessary.
Moderate- reduce starting dose to 50 mg tab twice daily; double the dose every 2-4 weeks to target maintenance
dose of 200 mg twice daily as tolerated.
Severe- use not recommended.

Indications

Reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in patients with chronic heart failure
(NYHA Class II-IV) and reduced ejection fraction; usually administered in conjunction with other heart failure
therapies, in place of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or other angiotensin II receptor blocker
(ARB).

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to sacubitril, valsartan, or any component of the formulation; history of angioedema related to
previous ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy; concomitant use or use within 36 hours of ACE inhibitors; concomitant use of
aliskiren in patients with diabetes.

Precautions

May cause angioedema, hyperkalemia, hypotension, renal function deterioration; use in caution in patients with
aortic or mitral stenosis, heart failure, hepatic impairment, renal artery stenosis, and renal impairment

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Hypotension, hyperkalemia, and increased serum creatinine.
Less Common: Cough, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, falls, decreased hematocrit and hemoglobin, angioedema,
and renal failure.
Rare: Anaphylaxis, hypersensitivity, pruritus, and skin rash.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:39:51 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Both drugs increase serum potassium:
Aspirin, Atenolol, Betaxolol, Bisoprolol, Candesartan, Carvedilol, Celecoxib, Diclofenac, Digoxin, Esmolol, Ibuprofen,
Ketorolac, Losartan, Mefenamic Acid, Naproxen, Potassium Chloride, Potassium Citrate, Propranolol, Spironolactone,
Succinylcholine, Telmisartan

Decreases effects of sacubitril/valsartan:
Aspirin, Celecoxib, Diclofenac, Ibuprofen, Ketoprofen, Ketorolac, Mefenamic Acid, Naproxen.

Either drug increases the toxicity of the other:
Aspirin, Celecoxib, Diclofenac, Ibuprofen, Ketorolac, Mefenamic Acid, Naproxen

Increases effects of sacubitril/valsartan
Atorvastatin, Carbamazepine, Carbidopa, Clarithromycin, Daclatasvir, Digoxin, Erythromycin, Levodopa, Paclitaxel,
Rifampin, Simvastatin, Tacrolimus

Increases toxicity of sacubitril/valsartan
Enoxaparin, Heparin

Increases the toxicity of the following:
Atorvastatin

Avoid concomitant use with:
Either increases the toxicity of the other:
Captopril, Enalapril, Lithium

Mechanism of Action

Sacubitril is a prodrug that inhibits neprilysin leading to increased natriuretic peptides, which promotes excretion of
sodium by the kidneys; valsartan produces direct antagonism of the angiotensin II receptors preventing
vasoconstriction, aldosterone release, arginine vasopressin release, water intake, and hypertrophic responses.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 3 of 3