April 25, 2026, 2:40:23 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

SALICYLIC ACID (ANTIFUNGALS FOR TOPICAL USE)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

D01AE12

ANATOMICAL

Dermatologicals

THERAPEUTIC

Antifungals for Dermatological Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antifungals for Topical Use

CHEMICAL CLASS

Other Antifungals for Topical Use

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

TOPIC › 5% solution, 30 mL bottle (Rx)

TOPIC › 5% solution, 60 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

TOPIC › 5% solution, 30 mL bottle (Rx)

Plantar warts, calluses, corns, by topical application, ADULT, apply to affected area; repeat until condition clears;
occasional use will maintain remission. Acne, by topical application, ADULT, as 0.5 to 2% preparation, apply thinly
to the affected area 1–3 times daily, reduce to once daily or every other day if dryness or peeling occurs. NOTE:
Safety and efficacy in children is not yet established

Administration

TOPIC › 5% solution, 30 mL bottle (Rx)

For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membrane. NOTE. Excessive application of the product
other than is needed to cover the affected area will not result in more therapeutic benefit.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:40:23 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal or hepatic impairment (monitor for signs of salicylate toxicity, i.e., nausea, vomiting, dizziness, loss of hearing,
tinnitus, lethargy, hyperpnea, diarrhea, psychic disturbances); Impaired peripheral circulation; Diabetes; Significant
peripheral neuropathy; Children (monitor for signs of salicylate toxicity, listed above; avoid use in children with
varicella or influenza due to potential risk of developing Reye’s Syndrome); Lactation.

Indications

Keratolytic; management of keratosis in arsenic poisoning; removal of excessive keratin in hyperkeratotic skin
disorders; acne

Contraindications

Prolonged use or application to large areas; impaired circulation; warts with hair growth or on face; birthmarks;
moles

Precautions

Renal or hepatic impairment (monitor for signs of salicylate toxicity, i.e., nausea, vomiting, dizziness, loss of hearing,
tinnitus, lethargy, hyperpnea, diarrhea, psychic disturbances); Impaired peripheral circulation; Diabetes; Significant
peripheral neuropathy;

Children (monitor for signs of salicylate toxicity, listed above; avoid use in children with varicella or influenza due to
potential risk of developing Reye’s Syndrome); Lactation.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Dermatitis, skin peeling, discomfort, irritation, dryness, ulceration, erosion, salicylate toxicity (systemic),
toxic inner ear damage, excessive erythema and scaling (when used on open skin lesions)
Rare: Hypersensitivity reactions (potentially fatal, e.g., anaphylactic reaction)

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:40:23 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Oral Anticoagulants (bleeding); Pyrazinamide (pyrazinamide-induced uricemia); Sulfonylureas (hypoglycemia)

Increases serum concentration of Salicylic Acid:
Aspirin, Other salicylate-containing Medications
Reduces therapeutic effect of Heparin (interferes with heparin hemostasis due to decreased platelet adhesiveness)

Administration: For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membrane.

NOTE. Excessive application of the product other than is needed to cover the affected area will not result in more
therapeutic benefit.

Mechanism of Action

2-hydroxy derivative of benzoic acid that produces desquamation of the horny layer of skin while not effecting
qualitative or quantitative changes in the structure of the viable epidermis.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3