April 25, 2026, 2:41:51 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

SIMVASTATIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

C10AA01

ANATOMICAL

Cardiovascular System

THERAPEUTIC

Lipid Modifying Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Hmg CoA Reductase Inhibitors

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 20 mg tablet (Rx)

ORAL › 40 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 20 mg tablet (Rx)

Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, by mouth, ADULT, initially 40 mg daily at night, adjusted at intervals of
at least 4 weeks (see restricted dosing with 80 mg once daily at night). Prevention of cardiovascular events, by
mouth, ADULT, initially 10–40 mg once daily at night, adjusted at intervals of at least 4 weeks with recommended
starting dose of 40 mg for those at high risk of cardiovascular events. Primary hypercholesterolemia or combined
hyperlipidemia, by mouth, ADULT, 10–20 mg daily at night, adjusted at intervals of at least 4 weeks (see restricted
dosing with 80 mg once daily at night). Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, by mouth, ADOLESCENT 10–18
years, initially 10 mg at night, may increase if necessary, at intervals of at least 4 weeks to a maximum of 40 mg at
night. NOTE: Maximum simvastatin dose: with concomitant and diltiazem, 10 mg daily; with concomitant
amiodarone or amlodipine, 20 mg daily. Contraindicated with erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, HIV
protease inhibitors, and gemfibrozil.

Administration

ORAL › 20 mg tablet (Rx)

May be taken with or without food. Avoid excessive consumption, i.e., >1 L daily of grapefruit juice.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:41:51 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Use with caution. Start at low dose.

Renal Impairment:
For mild-to-moderate renal impairment, dose reduction is warranted.
For severe impairment, refer patient to a specialist.

Hepatic Impairment:
Use with caution. Start at low dose. Contraindicated in active liver disease or persistent abnormal liver function
tests.

Restricted Dosing for 80 mg:
Restrict use of 80-mg dose to patients who have been taking Simvastatin 80 mg chronically, e.g., for 12 months or
more, without evidence of muscle toxicity, to minimize the risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, particularly
during the first year of treatment.

Indications

For prevention of cardiovascular events in patients with high cardiovascular risk due to atherosclerotic
cardiovascular disease or DM; primary hypercholesterolemia; homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, or
combined hyperlipidemia in patients who have not yet responded adequately to diet or other appropriate measures;
(children and adolescents) heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia

Contraindications

Known hypersensitivity to simvastatin or any component of the formulation; active liver disease, or persistently
abnormal liver function tests; porphyria; pregnancy (congenital anomalies reported; decreased synthesis of
cholesterol possibly affects fetal development); breastfeeding

Precautions

Muscle effects (do not start simvastatin if creatine kinase [CK] is elevated in patients at high risk of muscle effects;
risk of myopathy is increased if simvastatin is given at high doses or with a fibrate, with lipid-lowering doses of
nicotinic acid, or with immunosuppressants; monitor liver function and creatine kinase). Rhabdomyolysis (rarely
occurs; risk may be increased in renal impairment and hypothyroidism).
Severe intercurrent illness, e.g., infection, trauma, or metabolic disorder (increased risk of myopathy,
rhabdomyolysis, and renal failure;); hypothyroidism (should be managed before starting treatment with a statin);
surgery (increased risk of acute renal impairment, which increases the likelihood of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis).
History of liver disease, or high alcohol intake (monitor liver function at initiation of treatment, after 4 to 12 weeks
and periodically thereafter, e.g., at 6-month intervals or when clinically indicated; discontinue if serum transaminase
concentration rises to, and persists at, 3 times the upper limit of the reference range); renal impairment).
Elderly (increased risk of myopathy); Children (safety and efficacy have not been established in children <10 years).

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:41:51 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Abdominal pain, atrial fibrillation, constipation, diabetes mellitus, dizziness, eczema, edema, elevated CK
and serum transaminase level, flatulence, gastritis, headache, insomnia, myalgia, nausea, upper respiratory
infection, urinary tract infection, vertigo, vomiting
Less Common: Mild GI symptoms
Rare: Anaphylaxis, anemia, angioedema, gynecomastia, hepatitis, hypersensitivity, impotence, interstitial lung
disease, jaundice, liver failure, myopathy, pancreatitis, peripheral neuropathy, pruritus, rash, renal failure,
rhabdomyolysis, toxic epidermal necrolysis

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Simvastatin:
Carbamazepine

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of simvastatin:
Clotrimazole (myopathy), CYP3A4 Inhibitors, e.g., Clarithromycin, Erythromycin, Ketoconazole, Diltiazem (myopathy;
rhabdomyolysis)

Increases serum concentration of the following drugs:
CYP3A4 Inhibitors, e.g., Clarithromycin, Erythromycin, Ketoconazole, Diltiazem

Reduces absorption of simvastatin:
Bile Acid Binding Resins [administer statin at least 1 hour before, or 4 hours after, the resin]

Mechanism of Action

An HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, which is effective in reducing LDL cholesterol concentration, and has been
reported to reduce the incidence of fatal and non-fatal MI, stroke and mortality, and the need for coronary and non-
coronary revascularization procedures.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

X

Page 3 of 3