April 25, 2026, 2:43:09 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

D10AE01

ANATOMICAL

Dermatologicals

THERAPEUTIC

Antiseptics and Disinfectants

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Other Antiseptics and Disinfectants

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

UNASSIGNED › Solution: 1.25% available chlorine (Rx)

Dosage

UNASSIGNED › Solution: 1.25% available chlorine (Rx)

Management of lightly or moderately exudative wounds, by topical application, ADULT and CHILD, pour on or apply
to affected area once daily; protect intact skin with a moisture barrier ointment or skin sealant as needed.
Management of highly exudative or highly contaminated wounds, by topical application, ADULT and CHILD, pour on
or apply to affected area twice daily; protect intact skin with a moisture barrier ointment or skin sealant as needed.
Water purification Approximate Volume of Sodium Hypochlorite: 2.5 mL (½ teaspoon) Approximate Volume of
Water to be Treated: 22.5 L (5 gallons) Approximate Volume of Sodium Hypochlorite: 5 mL (1 teaspoon) Approximate
Volume of Water to be Treated: 45 L (10 gallons) Approximate Volume of Sodium Hypochlorite: 25 mL (5 teaspoons)
Approximate Volume of Water to be Treated: 227 L (50 gallons)

Administration

UNASSIGNED › Solution: 1.25% available chlorine (Rx)

For external use only. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control
Center immediately. Keep container closed when not using.

Indications

To prevent and treat infections of the skin tissue; pre- and post-surgery antiseptic; for cuts, abrasions, and skin
ulcers; for water purification

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 2:43:09 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Precautions

WARNING: Not for consumption. Do NOT ingest tablet.

Ensure that use of tablets, especially for large volume waters, is conducted in a well-ventilated area; Stop use and
ask a doctor if redness, irritation, swelling or pain persists or increases.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Cough, sore throat

Mechanism of Action

A strong oxidizing agent that can be used for water purification by producing chlorine when dissolved in water.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2