April 25, 2026, 2:43:19 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

SODIUM NITRITE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

V03AB08

ANATOMICAL

Various

THERAPEUTIC

All Other Therapeutic Products

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Specific Antidotes

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › USP grade powder (Rx)

Dosage

IV › USP grade powder (Rx)

Cyanide poisoning, by slow IV injection, ADULT, 10 mL at 2.5–5 mL per minute; immediately followed by 50 mL
sodium thiosulfate; CHILD, 0.2 mL/kg (6 mg/kg or 6–8 mL/m2 BSA) at 2.5– 5 mL per minute, not to exceed 10 mL;
immediately followed by 1 mL/kg (250 mg/kg or approximately 30– 40 mL/m2 BSA) sodium thiosulfate, not to
exceed 50 mL total dose. NOTE: If signs of poisoning reappear, repeat treatment using half of original dose of
both sodium nitrite and sodium thiosulfate.

Administration

IV › USP grade powder (Rx)

For slow IV injection only. Administer as early as possible after a diagnosis of acute life-threatening cyanide
poisoning has been established. Administer sodium thiosulfate immediately after sodium nitrite. If to be used
with other cyanide antidotes, do NOT administer concurrently in the same IV line.

Dose Adjustment

Anemic patients:
Reduce dose in proportion to oxygen carrying capacity.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:43:19 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

For sequential use with sodium thiosulfate for
the treatment of cyanide poisoning that is judged to be
serious or life-threatening

Contraindications

None

Precautions

WARNING: Causes life threatening hypotension and methemoglobin formation, which diminishes oxygen carrying
capacity. Monitor patient closely to ensure adequate perfusion and oxygenation.

Use with caution in patients where the diagnosis of cyanide poisoning is uncertain. Anemia (use with caution); Smoke
inhalation injury or carbon monoxide poisoning; Renal impairment; G6PD deficiency; Elderly (select doses with care);
Children, neonates, and infants; Pregnancy; Lactation.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common and Less Common:
Hypotension, syncope,
tachycardia, methemoglobinemia, palpitations,
dysrhythmia, headache, dizziness, blurred vision,
seizures, confusion, coma, nausea, vomiting, abdominal
pain, tachypnea, dyspnea, anxiety, diaphoresis,
lightheadedness, injection site tingling, cyanosis,
acidosis, fatigue, weakness, urticaria, generalized
numbness and tingling

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:43:19 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following
drugs, specifically volume depletion:
Diuretics, PDE5 Inhibitors

Mechanism of Action

A cyanide antidote that exerts its therapeutic effect by reacting with hemoglobin to form methemoglobin, an
oxidized form of hemoglobin with high affinity to cyanide, inhibiting the activity of cyanide on cytochrome oxidase.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3