April 25, 2026, 2:42:42 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

SODIUM CHLORIDE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N/A

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Additives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

PAREN › 2.5 mEq/mL, 20 mL vial (Rx)

PAREN › 2.5 mEq/mL, 50 mL vial (Rx)

Dosage

PAREN › 2.5 mEq/mL, 20 mL vial (Rx)

Dose is dependent on degree of sodium depletion (i.e., moderately severe hyponatremia where serum sodium is
between 125–129 mmol/L or profound hyponatremia where serum sodium is <125 mmol/L); on severity of
symptoms (i.e., moderately or severely symptomatic); and on time of development of hyponatremia (acute, where
hyponatremia is documented to exist <48hrs). IMPORTANT NOTE: Sodium deficit must be corrected gradually in
stages. Avoid overtly rapid correction to prevent development of Osmotic Demyelination Syndrome (previously
named Central Pontine Myelinosis). The rate of correction of hyponatremia should not be more than 10 mmol/L (or
10 mEq/L) in 24 hours, or 18 mmol/L (or 10 mEq/L) in 48 hours.

Administration

PAREN › 2.5 mEq/mL, 20 mL vial (Rx)

Administer based on calculated dose requirements for each patient. Must be diluted before infusion to avoid a
sudden increase in the plasma-sodium level. Too rapid administration should be avoided [see Important Note
under Dose]. Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do NOT use unless
the solution is clear, and seal is intact. Discard unused portion

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:42:42 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
Select doses with caution due to potential to
result in sodium retention and increased risk
of adverse effects.

Indications

Hyponatremia with overt manifestations

Contraindications

Where the administration of
sodium or chloride could be clinically detrimental (e.g., hypernatremia); fluid retention; hypertension; CHF

Precautions

WARNING: Contains aluminum, which may be toxic. May reach toxic aluminum levels with prolonged use, especially if
kidney function is impaired.

Monitor fluid balance, electrolyte concentration, and acid-base balance; observe for hypernatremia, water retention
and pulmonary edema; restrict in patients with renal insufficiency or failure, cardiac failure, hypertension, peripheral
and pulmonary edema, or toxemia of pregnancy; Seizures or neurologic deficit (requires aggressive therapy); IV
administration can cause fluid and/ or solute overloading resulting in dilution of other electrolyte concentration,
overhydration, congested states or pulmonary edema; excessive administration of potassium-free solutions may
result in significant hypokalemia; Premature neonates.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Air embolization, febrile response, local tenderness, tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection, venous
thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation [NOTE: May occur because of the
solution, added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration].

Rare: Edema, sodium accumulation

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:42:42 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of hypertension and edema of the following drugs due to sodium and water retention: Corticosteroids
e.g. Prednisone

Mechanism of Action

A sterile, non-pyrogenic, concentrated solution of sodium chloride administered to replenish electrolytes.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3