April 25, 2026, 2:43:50 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

SODIUM SULFATE (DRUGS FOR CONSTIPATION)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

A06AD13

ANATOMICAL

Alimentary Tract and Metabolism

THERAPEUTIC

Drugs for Constipation

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Drugs for Constipation

CHEMICAL CLASS

Osmotically acting laxatives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › USP grade powder (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › USP grade powder (Rx)

Bowel cleansing, by mouth, ADULT, dilute with water to approximately 450 mL and ingest as instructed.

Administration

ORAL › USP grade powder (Rx)

Mix with water and shake well prior to ingestion. To be taken with additional water to improve patient tolerance.
Do NOT swallow the dry powder. Do NOT take food or other drugs within 1 hour of administration. Drink lots of clear
liquids before, during, and after administration to prevent dehydration. Avoid purple or red fluids.

Indications

Gastrointestinal decontamination for specific drug or poison ingestion

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:43:50 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Precautions

WARNING: Direct ingestion of dry powder may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration, and electrolyte
disturbances.

Gout;
Elderly (use with caution);
Children;
Lactation (use with caution).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Overall discomfort, increased anion gap, decreased bicarbonate, increased osmolality, hyperkalemia increase
potassium and hypernatremia increased sodium, hyperuricemia, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, nausea,
vomiting, headache

Less Common:
GI upset, bloating, stomach cramps

Rare:
Allergic reactions, electrolyte abnormalities, irregular heartbeat, dizziness, headache, rectal pain, rectal bleeding,
black, tarry, or bloody stools

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Sodium Sulfate, particularly, affects renal function: ACE Inhibitors,
Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, Diuretics, NSAIDs

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
QT-prolonging Drugs, e.g., Amiodarone, Clozapine,
Quinidine (ventricular arrhythmia, particularly torsade de
pointes)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects Sodium Sulfate:
Alcohol (seizures; arrhythmia; kidney problems),
Laxatives, Stool Softeners (electrolyte imbalance;
dehydration)

Mechanism of Action

A moderately water– and acid–soluble sodium source for uses compatible with sulfates. It is a gastrointestinal drug
administered as a 0.5% solution as an osmotic laxative to prompt bowel evacuation.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:43:50 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3