April 25, 2026, 2:47:23 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

SPECTINOMYCIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

J01XX04

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antibacterials for Systemic Use

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Nitrofuran Derivatives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › [ACCESS] 2 g vial (Rx)

Dosage

IM › [ACCESS] 2 g vial (Rx)

Gonococcal infection, by IM injection, ADULT, 2 g as a single dose. Max: 4 g, administer in two different injection
sites; CHILD, beyond newborn period and <45 kg: 40 mg/kg as a single dose. Max: 2 g

Administration

IM › [ACCESS] 2 g vial (Rx)

Given by deep intramuscular injection as a single dose equivalent to 2 g of spectinomycin, although a dose of 4 g
may sometimes be required, divided between two injection sites.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Refer to adult dosing.

Indications

Treatment of acute gonorrheal urethritis and proctitis in the male and acute gonorrheal cervicitis and proctitis in the
female when due to susceptible strains of
Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Men and women with known recent exposure to gonorrhea should be treated as those
known to have gonorrhea.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 2:47:23 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to spectinomycin or any component of the formulation.

Precautions

Ineffective in the treatment of syphilis and may mask or delay symptoms of incubating syphilis.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Nausea, dizziness, fever and chills, insomnia,urticaria, mild to moderate pain after IM injection, alterations in kidney
and liver function, decrease in Hb and hematocrit.

Rare:
Anaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions.

Drug Interactions

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Lithium

Mechanism of Action

Nitrofurans are bacteriostatic and bactericidal for many gram-negative and gram-positive organisms but may not
affect P. aeruginosa and many strains of proteus.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

REMARKS

WHO anti-biotic category: ACCESS

Page 2 of 2