April 25, 2026, 2:48:04 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N/A

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Additives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › 2 mL ampule (No Preservative) (Rx)

IV › 5 mL ampule (No Preservative) (Rx)

IV › 10 mL ampule (No Preservative) (Rx)

IV › 20 mL ampule (No Preservative) (Rx)

IV › 50 mL Bottle/Bag (No Preservative) (Rx)

IV › 100 mL Bottle/Bag (No Preservative) (Rx)

IV › 500 mL Bottle/Bag (No Preservative) (Rx)

IV › 1 L Bottle/Bag (No Preservative) (Rx)

Dosage

IV › 2 mL ampule (No Preservative) (Rx)

Volume to be used for any drug for injection is based on the vehicle concentration, dose, and route of
administration as recommended by the drug manufacturer.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:48:04 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

IV › 2 mL ampule (No Preservative) (Rx)

Inspect reconstituted drugs for clarity and freedom from unexpected precipitation or discoloration prior to
administration. Do NOT use for IV injection unless the osmolar concentration results in an isotonic admixture. Do
NOT use unless the solution is clear and intact. mix thoroughly and use promptly after diluting or dissolving drugs.
Do NOT store reconstituted solutions of drugs for injection, unless otherwise directed. Do NOT reuse single-dose
containers. Do NOT heat over 66°C (150°F).

Indications

For dissolving or diluting medicines that are intended for parenteral injection.

NOTE: Use in accordance with the instructions set by the manufacturer of the drug.

Precautions

WARNING: IV administration without a solute may result in hemolysis.

Should be made isotonic prior to use; not for direct infusion; not for non-automated admixture preparations;
Neonates and very small infants.

NOTE: Upon reconstitution of medicines, label to indicate that no antimicrobial or other substance has been added,
and that it is not suitable for IV injection without first having been made approximately isotonic by the addition of a
suitable solute.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Febrile response, local tenderness, abscess, tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis
or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation.

NOTE: May occur because of the solution, added drugs, or the technique reconstitution or administration

Drug Interactions

May be incompatible with some drugs for injection in a given vehicle, or when combined in the same vehicle.

Mechanism of Action

A sterile, nonpyrogenic water for injection that does not contain any antimicrobial agent or other added substances,
such as buffer, and is
supplied in single-dose containers to dilute or dissolve drugs for injection.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:48:04 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

N/A

Page 3 of 3