April 24, 2026, 11:21:39 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

STREPTOMYCIN

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

A07AA04; J01GA01

ANATOMICAL

Anti-Infectives for systemic use

THERAPEUTIC

Antimycobacterials

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Drugs for Treatment of Tuberculosis

CHEMICAL CLASS

Drugs for Tuberculosis

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IM › [WATCH] 1 g vial (as sulfate) (Rx)

Dosage

IM › [WATCH] 1 g vial (as sulfate) (Rx)

Tuberculosis, by deep IM injection, ADULT, 15 mg/kg (range: 12-18 mg/kg) daily, not to exceed 1 g daily (patients over
60 years, or those weighing <50 kg may not tolerate doses above 500-750 mg daily); CHILD, 30 mg /kg (range: 20-40
mg/kg) daily, not to exceed 1 g daily.

Administration

IM › [WATCH] 1 g vial (as sulfate) (Rx)

Solutions retain their potency for 48 hours after reconstitution at room temperature and for up to 14 days when
refrigerated.

Dose Adjustment

Renal Impairment:
For adult patients with creatinine clearance <30 mL/minute or for adult patients receiving hemodialysis: 12-15 mg/kg
per dose two or three times per week.
If possible, streptomycin should be avoided in patients with renal failure.

Page 1 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:21:39 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Treatment of tuberculosis, as an alternative to ethambutol in combination with isoniazid, rifampicin and
pyrazinamide.

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to streptomycin or any component of the formulation;
hearing disorders (e.g., vestibular disturbances and impaired hearing);
myasthenia gravis

Precautions

WARNING: May cause nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity.

Avoid concurrent use of nephrotoxic/neurotoxic drugs;
may cause neuromuscular blockade and respiratory paralysis, especially when given after anesthesia or muscle
relaxants. Children (painful injection, avoid use if possible);
Renal impairment (monitor plasma concentration);
Infants, and the elderly (adjust dose and monitor renal, auditory, and vestibular function and plasma streptomycin
concentrations);
Pregnancy (second and third trimester: auditory and vestibular damage in the fetus; avoid unless essential; if given,
serum-streptomycin concentration monitoring is essential);
Breastfeeding (present in milk; continue breastfeeding and monitor infant for thrush and diarrhea).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Fever, hearing loss, hypersensitivity reactions, nausea, rash, sterile abscess and pain at injection site, vertigo,
vomiting.

Less Common:
Albuminuria, high frequency range hearing impairment, numbness around mouth, tinnitus, urinary casts, vestibular
damage and toxicity.

Rare:
Agranulocytosis, anaphylactic shock, aplastic anemia, C. difficile-associated disease, exfoliative dermatitis,
hemolytic anemia, hypomagnesemia, nephrotoxicity, paresthesia, of the mouth, tubular necrosis, thrombocytopenia.

Page 2 of 3



April 24, 2026, 11:21:39 PM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs:
Ototoxic and nephrotoxic drugs e.g., other aminoglycoside antibiotics, furosemide, cephalosporins and vancomycin

Enhances therapeutic effect of Streptomycin: Magnesium sulfate

Avoid concomitant use with:
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Streptomycin:
H1 receptor blocker e.g. Diphenhyadramine

Mechanism of Action

Antimycobacterial drugs are used in the treatment of diseases caused by members of the Mycobacterium genus,
including tuberculosis (TB) and leprosy.
Combination chemotherapy is essential to kill heterogeneous populations of bacterial cells located in different
conditions within the host, and to prevent drug resistance.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 3 of 3