April 25, 2026, 2:50:17 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

SULFACETAMIDE + PREDNISOLONE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01CA02

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antiinflammatory Agents and Antiinfectives in Combination

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › 10% sulfacetamide + 0.25% prednisolone (as acetate) eye drops suspension, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › 10% sulfacetamide + 0.25% prednisolone (as acetate) eye drops suspension, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Uveitis, bacterial conjunctivitis, keratoconjuctivitis, or keratitis, into the eye, ADULT, instill 2 drops into the
conjunctival sac every 4 hours during the day and at bedtime; if signs and symptoms fail to improve after 2 days,
re-evaluate.

Administration

OPHTHALM › 10% sulfacetamide + 0.25% prednisolone (as acetate) eye drops suspension, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Shake well before use. The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 20 mL should be made
by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification, such as slit lamp biomicroscopy
and, where appropriate, fluorescein staining. If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days, the patient
should be re-evaluated. Do NOT prescribe more than 20 mL initially. Do NOT refill prescription without further
evaluation. Do NOT Inject into the eye. NOTE: Do NOT discontinue therapy prematurely. Withdraw therapy with
gradual tapering of dose in chronic conditions.

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:50:17 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

For steroid-responsive inflammatory ocular conditions for which a corticosteroid is indicated and where superficial
bacterial ocular infection or a risk of bacterial ocular infection exists.

Contraindications

Viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva, including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis, vaccinia, and varicella;
mycobacterial infection of the eye; fungal diseases of ocular structures.

Precautions

Cataracts; Corneal thinning; Glaucoma; Immunosuppression; Pregnancy; Lactation.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common and Less Common:
Cataract, dizziness, eye discharge, eyelid edema, eyelid erythema, eye irritation, eye pain, eye pruritus, and
hypersensitivity including rash, skin pruritus, urticaria, ocular hyperemia, visual disturbance (blurry vision), delayed
wound healing, elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma and infrequent optic
nerve damage, anterior uveitis or perforation of the globe, mydriasis, loss of accommodation, ptosis, secondary
bacterial ocular infection.

Rare:
SJS, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fulminant hepatic
necrosis, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia and other
blood dyscrasias, systemic hypercorticoidism.

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Incompatible with the following products: Silver-containing Preparations

Reduces therapeutic effect of Sulfacetamide:
Local Anesthetics related to p-aminobenzoic Acid

Mechanism of Action

A sterile topical anti-inflammatory (prednisolone) and anti infective (sulfacetamide) product indicated for ophthalmic
use.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 2:50:17 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3