April 25, 2026, 3:01:38 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

TETRACAINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N01BA03

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Anesthetics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Anesthetics, Local

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

I-SPINAL › 20 mg sterile powder (as hydrochloride), ampule (spinal) (Rx)

Dosage

I-SPINAL › 20 mg sterile powder (as hydrochloride), ampule (spinal) (Rx)

NOTE: Dose varies with the anesthetic procedure, the degree of anesthesia required, and the individual patient
response. Anesthesia extending up to costal margin, by subarachnoid injection, ADULT, 15 mg; doses up to 20 mg
may be given but are reserved for exceptional cases. Low spinal anesthesia, saddle block, by subarachnoid
injection, ADULT and CHILD, 2–5 mg. Perineal anesthesia, by subarachnoid injection, ADULT and CHILD, 5 mg.
Perineal and lower extremities, by subarachnoid injection, ADULT and CHILD, 10 mg. Spinal anesthesia, by
subarachnoid injection, CHILD >15 kg, 0.2–0.3 mg/kg; CHILD 5–15 kg, 0.3–0.4 mg/kg; NEONATE <5 kg (PCA <60
weeks), 0.4–1 mg/kg (maximum dose should not exceed usual procedurespecific adult doses as noted above).

Administration

I-SPINAL › 20 mg sterile powder (as hydrochloride), ampule (spinal) (Rx)

Administer by subarachnoid injection for spinal anesthesia. Before injection, withdraw syringe plunger to make
sure injection is not into a vein or an artery. For spinal anesthesia for adults, dilute to a 1% solution with an equal
volume of CSF immediately prior to administration; or 5 mg of powder dissolved in 1 mL of CSF and administer
slowly at a rate of 1 mL over 5 seconds. For low spinal (saddle block) anesthesia in vaginal delivery, administer 2–5
mg as a hyperbaric solution.

Dose Adjustment

Elderly, Acutely ill Patients, Debilitated Patients, Obstetric Patients, and Patients with Increased Intra-abdominal
Pressure:
Use with caution. Dose reduction may be required.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 3:01:38 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Indications

Spinal anesthesia

Contraindications

Low plasma cholinesterase concentrations; complete heart block; bronchoscopy or cystoscopy.

Precautions

WARNING: Should be used by dental practitioners and/or clinicians well-trained in the diagnosis and management of
emergencies that may arise from the use of these agents. Resuscitative equipment, oxygen, and other resuscitative
drugs should be available for immediate use.

Shock (This should be treated before the administration of anaesthetic); Cardiovascular disease; Cerebrospinal
diseases; Hypovolemic shock or altered coagulation status; Epilepsy; Impaired cardiac conduction or respiratory
function; Hepatic impairment; Myasthenia gravis; Decreased plasma esterase levels; Hyperthyroidism.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Rare: Hypotension, chills, dizziness, drowsiness, loss of consciousness, nervousness, seizure, urticaria, nausea,
vomiting, methemoglobinemia, anaphylaxis, hypersensitivity reaction, tremor, blurred vision, miosis, tinnitus

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 3:01:38 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces diagnostic effect of Technetium Tc 99m Tilmanocept

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Neuromuscular-blocking agents e.g., Succinylcholine
(neuromuscular-blocking effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Tetracaine: Hyaluronidase
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Bupivacaine (Liposomal) [administer at least 20
minutes or more apart]
Increases serum concentration of Tetracaine: Anticholinesterases
Reduces therapeutic effect of Tetracaine: Aminosalicylic acid, Sulfonamide (antagonistic effect)

Mechanism of Action

Tetracaine prevents the generation and transmission of impulse along nerve fibers and at nerve endings;
depolarization and ion-exchange are inhibited. In general, loss of pain occurs before loss of sensory, autonomic and
motor functions.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3