April 25, 2026, 3:03:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

TIMOLOL

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01ED01

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Antiglaucoma Preparations and Miotics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops solution (as maleate), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops solution (as maleate), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Elevated IOP, into the eye, ADULT, 1 drop in the affected eye(s) twice daily. NOTE: Evaluate after approximately 4
weeks of treatment to determine IOP. If IOP is maintained at satisfactory levels, the dosage schedule may be
changed to 1 drop once daily in the affected eye(s). Measure IOP at different times during the day to best determine
response to once-a-day dose due to diurnal variations in intraocular pressure.

Administration

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops solution (as maleate), 5 mL bottle (Rx)

For topical ophthalmic use only. If using a bottle for the first time, make sure the safety seal is unbroken. Drop-
tainer bottle: Wash hands before each use. Shake once and remove the screw cap. Invert the bottle and hold the
bottle between your thumb and middle finger. (If self-administered, instruct patient that the tips of the fingers
point towards them). Tilt head back and position the bottle above the affected eye. With the opposite hand, place a
finger under the eye and gently pull down until a “V” pocket is made between the eye and the lower lid. With the
hand holding the bottle, place the index finger on the bottom of the bottle and push the bottom of the bottle to
dispense 1 drop. Do NOT squeeze the sides of the bottle. Repeat with the other eye if needed. Replace screw cap
by turning until firmly touching the bottle. Do NOT touch dropper tip to eyelids or other surfaces when placing
drops in eyes to avoid contamination. The dispenser tip is designed to provide a pre-measured drop. Do NOT
enlarge the hole of the dispenser tip. NOTE: Doses above 1 drop twice daily have not shown to produce further
reduction in IOP. If IOP is still not at a satisfactory level on this regimen, concomitant therapy with other agent(s)
for lowering intraocular pressure can be instituted. Concomitant use of 2 topical beta blockers is not
recommended. If more than one topical ophthalmic product is being used, administer at least 5 minutes apart.

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 3:03:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Indications

Treatment of elevated IOP in ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma.

Contraindications

Bronchial asthma; severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; sinus bradycardia; second or third-degree
atrioventricular block; overt cardiac failure.

Precautions

WARNING: May exhibit the same adverse reactions as with systemic beta blockers, including severe respiratory
reactions and cardiac reactions. If handled improperly, ophthalmic medications can become contaminated by
common bacteria known to cause eye infections, which may cause serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of
vision

Cardiac failure;
Obstructive pulmonary disease;
Major surgery (impairs response of heart to beta adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli; may augment risk
of general anesthesia in surgical procedures);
Muscle weakness;
Diabetes mellitus (may mask signs and symptoms of acute
hypoglycemia);
Thyrotoxicosis;
Bacterial keratitis (associated with use of multiple dose
containers of topical ophthalmic products);
Angle-closure glaucoma;
Children;
Pregnancy;
Lactation (detected in human milk).

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 3:03:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Eye burning and stinging

Less Common:
Headache, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain,
bradycardia, arrhythmia, hypotension, hypertension,
syncope, heart block, cerebral vascular accident,
cerebral ischemia, cardiac failure, worsening of angina
pectoris, palpitation, cardiac arrest, pulmonary edema,
edema, claudication, Raynaud's phenomenon, cold
hands and feet, nausea, diarrhea, dyspepsia, anorexia,
dry mouth, systemic lupus erythematosus, dizziness,
increase in signs and symptoms of myasthenia gravis,
paresthesia, somnolence, insomnia, nightmares,
behavioral changes, psychic disturbances, alopecia,
psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis, signs and
symptoms of systemic allergic reactions, anaphylaxis,
bronchospasm, respiratory failure, dyspnea, nasal
congestion, cough, upper respiratory infections, ocular
irritation, ptosis, decreased corneal sensitivity, cystoid
macular edema, visual disturbances,
pseudopemphigoid, choroidal detachment following
filtration surgery, tinnitus, retinoperitoneal fibrosis,
decreased libido, impotence, Peyronie’s disease.

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 3:03:29 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Timolol: Catecholamine-depleting Drugs, e.g., Reserpine (additive effects), Quinidine
(potentiated systemic beta blockade)

Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Clonidine (exacerbates rebound hypertension following
withdrawal of clonidine), Digitalis (prolonged
atrioventricular conduction time)

Enhances therapeutic effect of the following drugs:
Clonidine (exacerbates rebound hypertension following
withdrawal of clonidine), Digitalis (prolonged
atrioventricular conduction time)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Timolol:
Beta Blockers

Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Timolol:
Calcium Antagonists (atrioventricular conduction
disturbances; left ventricular failure; hypotension)

Reduces therapeutic effect of Epinephrine
(unresponsiveness to usual doses used in anaphylaxis)

Mechanism of Action

A non-selective beta blocking agent that reduces intraocular pressure (IOP) whether accompanied by glaucoma or
not.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 4 of 4