April 25, 2026, 3:09:31 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

TRACE ELEMENTS

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N/A

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Additives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › Contains Zn, Cu, Mn, Mg, Mb, etc., 10 mL ampule (IV nutrition) (Rx)

Dosage

IV › Contains Zn, Cu, Mn, Mg, Mb, etc., 10 mL ampule (IV nutrition) (Rx)

Dose is dependent on clinical condition of patient

Administration

IV › Contains Zn, Cu, Mn, Mg, Mb, etc., 10 mL ampule (IV nutrition) (Rx)

Must be added to daily volume of IV infusion fluids including TPN. Administer properly diluted at rate prescribed for
IV infusion fluids or TPN. Do NOT administer by direct IV. If additives are to be added, consult with pharmacist;
specific conditions may apply.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Use with caution. Use lower end of the dosing range, considering decreased organ function and concomitant
disease or drug therapy.
Renal Impairment:
Reduce or omit dose.

Indications

Nutritional supplement to IV solutions given for total parenteral or central nutrition.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 3:09:31 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to any component (especially iodides); manganese contraindicated in presence of high manganese
levels; molybdenum without copper supplementation contraindicated in copper-deficient patients

Precautions

Assess possibility of diabetes mellitus when giving chromium supplements to maintain normal glucose metabolism;
Selenium enhances vitamin E and decreases the toxicity of mercury, cadmium, and arsenic; Biliary tract obstruction;
Wilson’s disease; Impaired kidney function; Aluminum content; Premature neonates; Lactation (use manganese with
caution).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Rare: Toxicity; anaphylaxis (due to iodine)

Drug Interactions

NOTE: Therapeutic serum levels of copper and zinc will decrease if not given together.

Mechanism of Action

A sterile solution containing basic elements present in the human body in specific amounts required to initiate,
facilitate, or maintain appropriate body systems. Trace elements, or microminerals, are inorganic compounds that aid
physiological processes of the body such as building and regulation.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2