April 25, 2026, 3:12:04 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

TROPICAMIDE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

S01FA06

ANATOMICAL

Sensory Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Ophthalmologicals

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Mydriatics and Cycloplegics

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops solution, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Dosage

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops solution, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

Examination of fundus, into the eye, ADULT, instill 1 to 2 drops 15–20 minutes prior to examination. NOTE: Patients
with heavily pigmented irides may require larger doses. Mydriasis will reverse spontaneously with time, typically 4–
8 hours. Some cases may take up to 24 hours.

Administration

OPHTHALM › 0.5% eye drops solution, 5 mL bottle (Rx)

For topical ophthalmic use only. NOT for injection. Apply finger pressure to the lacrimal sac (inside corner of the
eye) during and for 2–3 minutes after instillation to decrease risk of absorption and systemic effects. Always wash
hands before and after administration. Contact lenses should be removed prior to administration. Do NOT touch
dropper tip to eyelids or other surfaces when placing drops in eyes to avoid contamination.

Dose Adjustment

No information found

Indications

For mydriasis and cycloplegia for diagnostic procedures.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 3:12:04 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Primary glaucoma

Precautions

WARNING: May cause CNS disturbances, which may be dangerous in pediatric patients.

Reproductive effects;
CNS effects (e.g., psychotic reaction and behavioral disturbances);
Photophobia and blurred vision (e.g., sensitivity to light; may last up to 2 weeks);
Elderly;
Children (psychotic reactions, behavioral disturbances, and vasomotor or cardiorespiratory collapse have been
reported);
Pregnancy;
Lactation.

SKILLED TASKS. Causes dilation of pupils, which may impair
ability to perform tasks that require mental alertness,
e.g., operating machinery or driving.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common:
Increased intraocular pressure, psychotic reactions, behavioral disturbances, transient stinging, cardiorespiratory
collapse (children), dryness of mouth, blurred vision, photophobia with or without corneal staining, tachycardia,
headache, parasympathetic stimulation, allergic reaction.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Reduces antihypertensive effect of the following drugs: Carbachol, Cholinesterase Inhibitors (Ophthalmic),
Pilocarpine

Mechanism of Action

An anticholinergic agent that blocks the responses of the sphincter muscle of the iris and the ciliary muscle to
cholinergic stimulation, producing mydriasis, with only slight cycloplegia. It acts rapidly, and the duration of activity is
relatively short.

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 3:12:04 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3