April 25, 2026, 3:12:47 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

TUBERCULIN, PURIFIED PROTEIN DERIVATIVE (PPD)

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

V04CE01

ANATOMICAL

Various

THERAPEUTIC

Diagnostic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Diagnostic Agents

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

I-DERMAL › 2 TU/0.1 mL solution, 1 mL vial (ID) (Rx)

I-DERMAL › 2 TU/0.1 mL solution, 5 mL vial (ID) (Rx)

I-DERMAL › 5 TU/0.1 mL, freeze-dried powder, vial + 2 mL diluent ampule (ID) (Rx)

Dosage

I-DERMAL › 2 TU/0.1 mL solution, 1 mL vial (ID) (Rx)

Diagnosis of tuberculosis, cell-mediated immuno deficiencies, by ID injection, ADULT and CHILD, 0.1 m ST
interpretation: Criteria for positive TST read at 48–72 hours: Induration:≥5 mm Interpretation: HIV infection (or risk
factors for HIV infection, but unknown status); Recent close contact to person with known active TB; Persons with
chest x-ray consistent with healed TB; Immunosuppressed individuals Induration:≥10 mm Interpretation: Clinical
conditions, which increase the risk of TB infection; Recent immigrants; IV drug users; Residents and employees of
high-risk settings; Children <4 years of age Induration:≥15 mm Interpretation: Persons who do not meet any of the
above criteria (no risk factors for TB) NOTE: A two-step test is recommended if testing will be performed at regular
intervals (e.g., for healthcare workers). If the first test is negative, a second TST should be administered 1–3 weeks
after the first test was read. TST interpretation in a healthcare setting: Test Parameter: Baseline Induration: ≥10
mm Interpretation: Positive Test Parameter: Serial testing without known exposure Induration: ≥10 mm
Interpretation: Positive Test Parameter: Known exposure Induration: ≥5 mm Interpretation: Positive if baseline is
0 mm Test Parameter: Known exposure Induration: ≥10 mm Interpretation: Positive if negative baseline or
previous screening result of ≥0 mm Test Parameter: Read test at 48–72 hours following placement Induration: 0
mm or less than the defined cutoff point Interpretation: Absence of infection with M. tuberculosis NOTE: Test
results should be documented in millimeters even if classified as negative. Erythema and redness of skin are not
indicative of a positive test result.

Page 1 of 3



April 25, 2026, 3:12:47 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

I-DERMAL › 2 TU/0.1 mL solution, 1 mL vial (ID) (Rx)

For ID administration only. Do NOT administer by IV, IM, or SQ. Administer to upper third of forearm (palm up) ≥2
inches from elbow, wrist, or other injection site. If neither arm can be used, administer to back of shoulder.
Administer using ¼ to ½ inch 27-gauge needle or finer tuberculin syringe. Should form wheal (6–10 mm in
diameter) as liquid is injected which will remain for approximately 10 minutes. Avoid placing pressure or bandage
at injection site. NOTE: Document the date and time of injection, person placing TST, location of injection site, and
lot number of solution.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Use a two-step procedure. Repeat test 2–4 weeks after
reading first test dose to elicit a “booster effect.”

Indications

Skin test in diagnosis of tuberculosis

Contraindications

Previous severe reaction to tuberculin
PPD skin test (TST)

Precautions

WARNING: Epinephrine (1:1000) should be available
to treat possible allergic reactions.

Burns, eczema, tuberculosis (do not administer);
Viral infections (skin testing may be deferred);
Vaccinations (skin testing may be deferred within 1 month);
Elderly (skin test response may be delayed or reduced in
magnitude);
Children (infants <6 weeks may have an absent or delayed
response);
Pregnancy (use with caution).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Rash, injection site reactions and anaphylaxis

Page 2 of 3



April 25, 2026, 3:12:47 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces diagnostic effect of Tuberculin:
Vaccines, Live [do not administer TST within 4–6 weeks
of vaccination]

TEST INTERACTIONS.
May produce false positive reactions may occur with BCG
vaccination
May produce false positive reactions with previous
mycobacteria infection (non- TB)
May produce false negative reactions in patients with
impaired cell- mediated immunity
NOTE: BCG vaccination is not contraindicated in tuberculin
PPD

Mechanism of Action

Diagnostic agent containing culture extracts called
tuberculins which can indicate infection with a variety of
non-tuberculosis mycobacteria or vaccination with the
live attenuated mycobacterial strain of M. bovis vaccine,
BCG, in addition to previous natural infection with M.
tuberculosis.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 3 of 3