April 25, 2026, 4:06:33 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

VALPROIC ACID

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N03AG01

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Antiepileptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Fatty Acid Derivatives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 500 mg tablet (as divalproex sodium) (Rx)

ORAL › 250 mg extended release tablet (as divalproex sodium) (Rx)

ORAL › 500 mg extended release tablet (as divalproex sodium) (Rx)

ORAL › 500 mg controlled release tablet (333 mg sodium valproate + 145 mg valproic acid) (Rx)

ORAL › 200 mg/5 mL syrup, 100 mL bottle (as sodium valproate) (Rx)

ORAL › 250 mg/5 mL syrup, 120 mL (as valproic acid) (Rx)

IV INFUSION › 500 mg/5 mL, 5 mL vial (IV infusion) (as valproic acid) (Rx)

ORAL › 250 mg tablet (as divalproex sodium) (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 250 mg tablet (as divalproex sodium) (Rx)

Epilepsy, by mouth, ADULT, initiate at 10–15 mg/kg daily (give in 2–3 divided doses if total daily dose exceeds 250
mg), gradually increase by 5–10 mg/kg per week to achieve optimal clinical response; usual maintenance dose is
20–30 mg/kg daily; doses above 60 mg/kg daily is not recommended (therapeutic serum range, 50 to 100
micrograms/mL); ADULT and CHILD >12 years, maximum dose is 2.5 grams daily in divided doses; CHILD <12 years
and >20 kg, maximum dose is 35 mg/kg daily [NOTE: In patients previously receiving valproic acid therapy,
divalproex sodium is initiated at the same daily dose and dosing schedule].

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 4:06:33 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

ORAL › 250 mg tablet (as divalproex sodium) (Rx)

Swallow tablets whole. Do not chew or crush. Taken preferably after food intake. If dose is skipped, do not double
the next dose. CONVERSION TO MONOTHERAPY. Reduce concomitant antiepilepsy drug dose by approximately
25% every 2 weeks. Reduction may be started at initiation of therapy or delayed by 1–2 weeks if there is a concern
that seizures are likely to occur with a reduction. AS ADJUNCT TO THERAPY. May be added to the regimen at an
initial oral dose of 10–15 mg/kg daily (give in 2–3 divided doses if total daily dose exceeds 250 mg), may increase
dose 5–10 mg/kg daily at 1-week intervals to achieve optimal clinical response (maximum 60 mg/kg daily or less
with a therapeutic serum range of 50 to 100 micrograms/mL).

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Lower initial dose and slower increase in dosage. Regularly monitor fluid and nutritional intake and increased
somnolence and other side effects.

Renal Impairment:
No dose adjustment necessary. May cause misleading results in therapeutic drug monitoring due to substantial
reduction of protein binding.

Hepatic Impairment:
Avoid if possible, hepatotoxicity and hepatic failure may occasionally occur, usually in the first six months.

Indications

Management of status epilepticus and other epilepsies when oral dosage forms cannot be utilized or when IV
anticonvulsants are warranted.

NOTE: It is an effective and safe alternative (less hypotension, cardiac arrhythmia, sedation) for status epilepticus.

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 4:06:33 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction; urea cycle disorders; hereditary neurometabolic syndromes
caused by DNA mutations of the mitochondrial DNA polymerase-gamma (POLG) gene (e.g., Alpers Huttenlocher
Syndrome); active pancreatitis.

Precautions

WARNING: Hepatotoxicity. Hepatic failure resulting in fatalities has occurred, usually during the first six months of
treatment. Increased risk for fatal hepatotoxicity is seen in children <2 years old, patients on multiple
anticonvulsants, congenital metabolic disorders, severe seizure disorders accompanied by mental retardation, or
organic brain disease, hereditary neurometabolic syndromes. Monitor for and immediately report non-specific
symptoms such as malaise, weakness, lethargy, facial edema, anorexia, and vomiting that may precede
hepatotoxicity. Loss of seizure control may also be seen. Discontinue immediately in the presence of suspected or
apparent significant hepatic dysfunction.

Pancreatitis. May be life-threatening, some hemorrhagic and progressed rapidly from initial symptoms to death.
Monitor for and immediately report symptoms of abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and/or anorexia. Measure plasma
amylase immediately if with abdominal pain. Discontinue drug immediately.

Teratogenicity. May cause neural tube defects. Do NOT use in women of child-bearing age unless essential.

Hepatotoxicity (liver function tests, e.g., SGPT/ALT, prothrombin time, must be done pre-treatment and periodically
especially within the first 6 months and in atrisk patients).

Urea cycle disorders (hyperammonemic encephalopathy, sometimes fatal)

Thrombocytopenia (platelet counts and coagulation tests, should be done before treatment and periodically
thereafter particularly during the first six months of therapy, and prior to surgery or anticoagulant therapy;
discontinue at first signs of hemorrhage, bruising, or disordered coagulation).

Suicidal thoughts and behavior (monitor and immediately report any unusual change in mood or behavior).

Children (children <2 years are at increased risk for fatal hepatotoxicity; use with extreme caution in this age group
and as a sole agent).

Pregnancy (may cause teratogenic effects, such as neural tube defects, e.g., spina bifida; must be considered in
women of child-bearing age only after the risks have been carefully weighed against the benefits; immediately refer
to a specialist).

SKILLED TASKS. May impair ability to perform tasks, which require mental alertness, like driving or operating
machinery.

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 4:06:33 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Adverse Drug Reactions

NOTE: The frequency of adverse effects, particularly elevated liver enzymes and thrombocytopenia, can be dose-
related.

Common: Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, anorexia, dyspepsia, elevated AST or ALT, somnolence,
dizziness, tremor, insomnia, nervousness, depression, anxiety, amnesia, mood changes, hallucinations, nystagmus,
blurred vision, amblyopia, ataxia, vertigo, thrombocytopenia, increased bleeding time, petechiae or ecchymosis,
asthenia, flu syndrome infection, bronchitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, headache, transient alopecia, skin rash, increased
appetite, weight gain, tinnitus.

Less Common: Irregular menses, secondary amenorrhea.

Rare: Hepatic failure (may be fatal), pancreatitis, hyperammonemia, SJS, toxic epidermal necrolysis.

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Decreases metabolism of the following drugs: Diazepam, Phenobarbital, Phenytoin
Decreases plasma clearance of the following drugs: Amitriptyline, Nortriptyline
Increases plasma clearance of Valproate Disodium: Rifampin
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Phenobarbital (neurologic toxicity, including CNS depression)

Avoid concomitant use with:
Reduces therapeutic effect of Valproate Disodium: Carbapenem Antibiotics e.g., Imipenem, Meropenem, Ertapenem
(loss of seizure control)

Mechanism of Action

Valproate is a simple branched-chain carboxylic acid that inhibits sustained repetitive firing of cortical neurons by
prolonging recovery of voltage-activated Na+ channels from inactivation. Its activity is thought to be related to the
elevated concentrations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the brain.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 4 of 4