April 25, 2026, 4:08:47 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

VINBLASTINE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

L01CA01

ANATOMICAL

Antineoplastic and Immunomodulating Agents

THERAPEUTIC

Antineoplastic Agents

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Plant Alkaloids and Other Natural Products

CHEMICAL CLASS

Vinca Alkaloids

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

10 mg powder for reconstitution (as sulfate), vial (Rx)

1 mg/mL (as sulfate), 10 mL vial (Rx)

Dosage

10 mg powder for reconstitution (as sulfate), vial (Rx)

NOTE: Determine dose frequency and duration based on indication, concomitant combination chemotherapy and
hematologic response. Hodgkin’s lymphoma, lymphocytic lymphoma, histiocytic lymphoma, mycosis fungoides,
testicular cancer, Kaposi’s sarcoma, or Langerhans Histiocytosis (LCH), by IV infusion, ADULT, 3.7 mg/m2, adjust
dose every 7 days based on WBC response up to 5.5 mg/m2 for the second dose, 7.4 mg/m2 for the third dose; 9.25
mg/m2 for the fourth dose, and 11.1 mg/m2 for the fifth dose; do not administer more frequently than every 7 days;
usual dose range, 5.5–7.4 mg/m2 every 7 days (maximum dose, 18.5 mg/m2), goal of dose adjustment is to reduce
WBC count to ~3,000/mm3. Hodgkin’s lymphoma, by IV infusion, CHILD, initially 6 mg/m2, do not administer more
frequently than every 7 days. Langerhans Histiocytosis or (LCH), by IV infusion, CHILD, initially 6.5 mg/m2, do not
administer more frequently than every 7 days. Testicular cancer, by IV infusion, CHILD, initially 3 mg/m2, do not
administer more frequently than every 7 days.

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 4:08:47 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

10 mg powder for reconstitution (as sulfate), vial (Rx)

For IV use only. A short IV infusion in a 25– 50 mL mini-bag is preferred. If not possible, administer undiluted as a 1-
minute infusion into a free flowing IV line to prevent venous irritation or extravasation. Local injection of
hyaluronidase and the application of moderate heat to the area of leakage help disperse the drug and are thought
to minimize discomfort and the possibility of cellulitis. NOTE: Extravasation may cause significant irritation. If
extravasation occurs, discontinue immediately and initiate appropriate extravasation management, including local
injection of hyaluronidase and moderate heat application to the affected area. Use a separate vein to administer
any remaining portion of the dose. Prolonged administration times (=30 to 60 minutes) and/or increased
administration volumes may increase the risk of vein irritation and extravasation.

Dose Adjustment

Hepatic Impairment:
For serum bilirubin >3 mg/dL, administer 50% of dose.

Obesity:
Use actual body weight (full weight) for calculation of BSA-based or weight-based dosing, especially if the intent of
therapy is curative.
If dose reduction is done due to toxicity, consider resumption of full weight-based dosing with subsequent cycles,
especially if cause of toxicity is resolved.

Indications

Treatment of Hodgkin’s lymphoma; lymphocytic lymphoma; histiocytic lymphoma; mycosis fungoides; testicular
cancer; Kaposi’s sarcoma; Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis (LCH)

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 4:08:47 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Significant granulocytopenia, unless as a result of a condition being treated; bacterial infection

Precautions

WARNING: For IV use only. Fatal if given by other routes.

Should be administered under the supervision of an experienced cancer chemotherapy physician, experienced in
vinblastine administration.

WARNING: Hazardous agent. Use appropriate precautions for handling and disposal.

Bone marrow suppression (e.g. leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia may occur; monitor for
infections if WBC <2,000/mm3; leukopenia may be more pronounced in cachectic patients, patients with skin
ulcerations)

Ischemic heart disease

Pulmonary toxicity (e.g. acute shortness of breath, severe bronchospasm).

Gastrointestinal toxicity (stomatitis may occur; may be disabling but is usually reversible)

Hepatic impairment (use with caution; toxicity may be increased).

Neurotoxicity (e.g. seizures, severe permanent CNS damage; seizures, CNS damage has occurred with higher then
recommended doses and/or when administered more frequently than recommended).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Alopecia, bone pain, constipation, hypertension, jaw pain, leukopenia or granulocytopenia (nadir, 5–10 days;
recovery, 7–14 days; dose-limiting toxicity), malaise, myelosuppression, tumor pain

Less Common: Abdominal pain, anemia, angina, anorexia, aspermia, auditory damage, bronchospasm, cellulitis (with
extravasation), cerebrovascular accident, coronary ischemia, deafness, deep tendon reflex loss, depression,
dermatitis, diarrhea, dizziness, dyspnea, ECG abnormalities, GI bleeding, headache, hemolytic uremic syndrome,
hemorrhagic enterocolitis, ileus, irritation, limb ischemia, metallic taste, MI, myalgia, myocardial ischemia, nausea
(mild), neurotoxicity (>24 hours), nystagmus, paresthesia, peripheral neuritis, paralytic ileus, pharyngitis, phlebitis
(with extravasation), photosensitivity (rare), radiation recall, rash, Raynaud's phenomenon, rectal bleeding, seizure,
skin blistering, stomatitis, SIADH, thrombocytopenia (recovery within a few days), thrombotic thrombocytopenic
purpura, toxic megacolon, urinary retention, vertigo, vestibular damage, vomiting (mild), weakness

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 4:08:47 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Enhances therapeutic effect of Vinblastine: Trastuzumab (neutropenic effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Vinblastine: Denosumab (serious infections)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: MAO Inhibitors [except Linezolid, Tedizolid]
(orthostatic hypotension), Mitomycin (Systemic) (pulmonary toxicity)
Reduces diagnostic effect of Coccidioides immitis Skin Test

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases serum concentration of Vinblastine: Dabrafenib, Mitotane, Sofosbuvir
Decreases serum concentration of the following drugs: Afatinib, Dabigatran Etexilate, Doxorubicin (Conventional),
Ledipasvir, Linagliptin
Enhances therapeutic effect of Vinblastine: Roflumilast (immunosuppressive effect)
Enhances therapeutic effect of Tofacitinib (immunosuppressive effect)
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of Vinblastine: Dipyrone (agranulocytosis, pancytopenia), Pimecrolimus,
Posaconazole, Tacrolimus (Topical), Voriconazole
Increases risk of adverse or toxic effects of the following drugs: Clozapine (agranulocytosis), Leflunomide
(hematologic toxicity such as pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, and/or thrombocytopenia), Natalizumab (concurrent
infection)
Increases serum concentration of Vinblastine: Fusidic Acid (Systemic), Lopinavir, Macrolide Antibiotics, e.g.
Erythromycin, Clarithromycin [except Azithromycin, systemic, Fidaxomicin], Mifepristone, Posaconazole, Ritonavir,
Tolterodine
Reduces therapeutic effect of Vinblastine: Echinacea
Reduces therapeutic effect of the following drugs: BCG (Intravesical), Vaccines (live virus vaccines may progress to
infection)

Mechanism of Action

It inhibits microtubule formation and arrests division, specifically for cells in the M and S phases of the cell cycle.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

D

Page 4 of 4