April 25, 2026, 4:09:38 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

VITAMINS, INTRAVENOUS (IV), WATER-SOLUBLE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05XC

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Additives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › Contains vitamin B complex and vitamin C, 1 mL vial ampule (Rx)

IV › Contains vitamin B complex and vitamin C, 2 mL ampule (Rx)

Dosage

IV › Contains vitamin B complex and vitamin C, 1 mL vial ampule (Rx)

Dose is dependent on the clinical condition of the patient. Multiples of the daily dose may be given for 2 or more
days in patients with multiple vitamin deficiencies or markedly increased requirements. Individual components
may be indicated in specific or long-standing deficiencies.

Administration

IV › Contains vitamin B complex and vitamin C, 1 mL vial ampule (Rx)

Most may be reconstituted with 5 mL of SWFI or supplied diluent. All preparations must be further diluted in at
least 500 mL but preferably 1,000 mL of IV fluids. Do not use if any crystals have formed. If additives are to be
added, consult with pharmacist. Specific conditions may apply.

Indications

Daily multivitamin maintenance supplement for patients receiving parenteral nutrition; dietary supplement in a
variety of circumstances where vitamin deficiencies are likely to occur; for increased tissue needs; for inborn errors
of metabolism; treatment for specific deficiency states.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 4:09:38 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to any ingredient; hypervitaminosis; patients with hyperoxaluria; G6PD deficiency; diabetes
mellitus; hemochromatosis; renal impairment; pregnancy; lactation

Precautions

Do not wait for the development of clinical signs of vitamin deficiency before initiating vitamin therapy; may contain
aluminum; Preparations containing Vitamin C must be protected from light; Hypersensitivity reactions; Megaloblastic
anemia (requires blood draws for the detection of folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies prior to administration);
pernicious anemia; diabetes mellitus and hypoglycemic states; impaired kidney function; Premature neonates.

Adverse Drug Reactions

Rare: Agitation, allergic reactions, anxiety, diplopia, dizziness, erythema, fainting, headache, pruritus, rash

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Bleomycin – inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid (Vitamin C) and riboflavin (Vitamin B2)
Chloramphenicol – hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy in patients with pernicious anemia may be inhibited
Erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, lincomycin – thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and
ascorbic acid may decrease their antibiotic activity
Hydralazine, isoniazid (INH) – may increase pyridoxine requirements
Levodopa – pyridoxine may reduce effectiveness of levodopa
Methotrexate – folic acid may decrease the patient’s response to methotrexate therapy
Phenytoin – folic acid may lower serum concentration of phenytoin, resulting in increased seizure frequency; monitor
serum levels of both drugs; may decrease serum folic acid concentrations; avoid during pregnancy

Mechanism of Action

Organic substances that are essential for normal metabolism and thus must be provided in the diet in small
quantities because these substances are not synthesized in the human body.

Water soluble vitamins include vitamins C, B1, B2, B6, B12, biotin, folic acid, niacin, and pantothenic acid. Water-
soluble vitamins, are metabolized rapidly and any excess is excreted in the urine. Except for niacin and pyridoxine,
overdosage seldom causes toxic effects in individuals with normal renal function.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2