April 25, 2026, 4:09:31 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

VITAMINS INTRAVENOUS (IV), FAT-SOLUBLE

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

B05XC

ANATOMICAL

Blood and Blood Forming Organs

THERAPEUTIC

Blood Substitutes and Perfusion Solutions

PHARMACOLOGICAL

I.V. Solutions Additives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

IV › Contains vitamins A, D, E, and K, 10 mL ampule (Rx)

Dosage

IV › Contains vitamins A, D, E, and K, 10 mL ampule (Rx)

Dose is dependent on the clinical condition of the patient. Multiples of the daily dose may be given for 2 or more
days in patients with multiple vitamin deficiencies or markedly increased requirements. Individual components
may be indicated in specific or long-standing deficiencies.

Administration

IV › Contains vitamins A, D, E, and K, 10 mL ampule (Rx)

Most may be reconstituted with 5 mL of SWFI or supplied diluent. All preparations must be further diluted in at
least 500 mL but preferably 1,000 mL of IV fluids. Do NOT use if any crystals have formed. Vitamin A may adhere to
plastic, resulting in inadequate vitamin A administration in the doses recommended. If additives are to be added,
consult with pharmacist. Specific conditions may apply.

Indications

Daily multivitamin maintenance supplement for patients receiving parenteral nutrition; situations, which may
provoke a stress response and alteration in the body’s metabolic demands; dietary supplement when oral
administration is contraindicated, not possible, or insufficient; treatment for specific deficiency states.

Page 1 of 2



April 25, 2026, 4:09:31 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to any ingredient; hypervitaminosis; pregnancy (vitamin A doses > RDA); hypercalcemia; signs of
vitamin D toxicity

Precautions

Do not wait for the development of clinical signs of vitamin deficiency before initiating vitamin therapy; may contain
aluminum; Hypersensitivity reactions; elevated Vitamin E blood levels; Renal failure or liver disease (use with
caution); Impaired kidney function; Premature neonates

Adverse Drug Reactions

Rare: Agitation, allergic reactions, anxiety, diplopia, dizziness, erythema, fainting, headache, pruritus, rash, vitamin A
and D hypervitaminosis

Drug Interactions

Avoid concomitant use with:
Decreases therapeutic effect of the following drugs: Warfarin (anticoagulant effect)

Mechanism of Action

Organic substances that are essential for normal metabolism and thus must be provided in the diet in small
quantities because these substances are not synthesized in the human body.
Fat soluble vitamins include Vitamins A, D, E, and K. They present a potential harm as they can be stored in massive
degree and many patients may take more than the prescribed dose. Overdosing may cause toxic effects because
they are metabolized very slowly.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

C

Page 2 of 2