April 25, 2026, 4:13:18 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

ZOLPIDEM

Drug Classification

ATC CODE

N05CF02

ANATOMICAL

Nervous System

THERAPEUTIC

Psycholeptics

PHARMACOLOGICAL

Hypnotics and Sedatives

Technical Specifications PNF Primary Care Reserved AMs

ORAL › 10 mg tablet (Rx)

Dosage

ORAL › 10 mg tablet (Rx)

Short-term treatment of insomnia, by mouth, ADULT, Note: The lowest effective dose should be used; higher
doses may be more likely to impair next morning activities. Immediate release tablet: 5 mg (females) or 5 to 10 mg
(males) immediately before bedtime for 7-10 days; maximum dose: 10 mg daily. Extended release tablet: 6.25 mg
(females) or 6.25 to 12.5 mg (males) immediately before bedtime; maximum dose: 12.5 mg daily. For debilitated
patients: Immediate release tablet: 5 mg immediately before bedtime. Extended release tablet: 6.25 mg
immediately before bedtime.

Page 1 of 4



April 25, 2026, 4:13:18 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Administration

ORAL › 10 mg tablet (Rx)

To be given orally, ingest immediately before bedtime due to rapid onset of action. Zolpidem tartrate should be
taken only once per night immediately before bedtime and at least 7–8 hours before the planned time of
awakening; patients should be advised of the importance of only taking the drug at such time. In addition, because
food can reduce both the rate and extent of GI absorption of zolpidem tartrate, the drug should not be
administered with or immediately after a meal in order to facilitate the onset of sleep; should be taken on an
empty stomach. Swallow tablet as a whole. Do not chew, crush, or break tablet. Zolpidem requires an S-2 license
for physicians to be able to prescribe it and an S-1 license with a triplicate prescription for pharmacists to dispense
it. PATIENT ADVICE: Inform clinicians and pharmacists of existing or contemplated concomitant therapy, including
prescription and OTC drugs, and alcohol consumption. Take only as prescribed; do not start, stop, or change the
dose of any drug unless otherwise instructed by a clinician. When sleep drugs are used nightly for more than a few
weeks, they may not work as well to help sleep problems. This is known as tolerance. Only use sleep drugs for a
short time. Do not take naps. Avoid driving and doing other tasks or actions that needs alertness. Avoid alcohol or
other drugs and natural products that slow down actions. To lower the chance of feeling dizzy or passing out, rise
slowly over a few minutes when sitting or lying down. Be careful climbing stairs. Inform the clinician of any side
effect (e.g., allergy, trouble swallowing, shortness of breath) experienced with taking the drug. For women, inform
clinicians if they are or planning to become pregnant or plan to breast- feed.

Dose Adjustment

Geriatric:
Immediate release tablet: 5 mg immediately before bedtime.
Extended release tablet: 6.25 mg immediately before bedtime.

Renal Impairment:
No dosage adjustment necessary. Use with caution and monitor

Hepatic Impairment:
Immediate release tablet, 5 mg immediately before bedtime.
Extended release tablet: 6.25 mg immediately before bedtime.

WARNING: For severe hepatic impairment, use is contraindicated.

Indications

Short-term treatment of insomnia; as needed for the treatment of insomnia when a middle-of the-night awakening
is followed by a difficulty returning to sleep and there are at least 4 hours of bedtime remaining before planned time
of wakening; short-term treatment of insomnia.

Page 2 of 4



April 25, 2026, 4:13:18 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Contraindications

obstructive sleep apnea and acute and/or severe impairment of respiratory function; unstable myasthenia gravis;
severe hepatic impairment; personal or family history of sleepwalking, psychotic illness

Precautions

Avoid prolonged use (and abrupt withdrawal thereafter), CNS depression, elderly, history of alcohol abuse, history of
drug abuse, muscle weakness, myasthenia gravis
Hypersensitivity e.g., anaphylactic reactions Behavior changes
Neuropsychiatric symptoms e.g., amnesia, anxiety Temporary memory loss at doses >10 mg/night
Insomnia may be a symptom of a primary disorder, rather than a primary disorder itself.
Depression (suicide or suicidal ideation)
History of drug dependence (abuse)
Elderly (dose adjustment; closely monitor elderly or debilitated patients for impaired cognitive and/or motor
performance, confusion, and potential for falling; avoid chronic use (>90 days) ; adverse events e.g., delirium, falls,
fractures.
Females (dose adjustment)
Pregnancy (avoid regular use (neonatal withdrawal symptoms); high doses during late pregnancy or labor (neonatal
hypothermia, hypotonia, respiratory depression); Lactation (avoid)
Sleep disturbance (failure of sleep disturbance to resolve after 7 to 10 days may indicate the need for psychiatric
and/or medical illness reevaluation).

TEST INTERACTIONS: Increased aminotransferase [ALT/AST], bilirubin (S); decreased RAI uptake.

MONITORING PARAMETERS: Daytime alertness; fall risk, respiratory rate; behavior profile; tolerance, abuse, and
dependence; reevaluate if insomnia persists after 7 to 10 days of use.

STORAGE AND STABILITY: Store at 15°C to 25°C (59°F to
77°F) ; limited excursions permitted up to 30°C (86°F).

Adverse Drug Reactions

Common: Agitation, amnesia, asthenia, ataxia, changes in libido, confusion, dependence, depression, diarrhea,
diplopia, dizziness, drowsiness, falls, hallucination, headache.

Less Common: Abnormal hepatic function tests, acute renal failure, aggressive behavior, agitation, anaphylaxis,
anemia, angina pectoris, anorexia, arteritis, arthritis, breast fibroadenosis, breast neoplasm, bronchitis, cardiac
arrhythmia, cerebrovascular disease, circulatory shock, cognitive dysfunction, corneal ulcer, cough, cystitis,
decreased libido, delusions, dementia, dermatitis, diaphoresis, drug tolerance, dysarthria, dysgeusia, dysphagia,
dyspnea, edema, extrasystoles, eye irritation, falling, glaucoma, hepatic insufficiency, hyperbilirubinemia,
hyperlipidemia, hypertension, hypotension, hysteria, illusion, impotence, increased thirst, leg cramps, leukopenia,
localized erythema, lymphadenopathy, menstrual disease, migraine, myocardial infarction, nervousness, neuralgia,
neuritis, neuropathy.

Rare: Hallucinations, angioedema

Page 3 of 4



April 25, 2026, 4:13:18 AM - https://pnf.doh.gov.ph

Drug Interactions

Monitor closely with:
Chlorpromazine (additive effects)

Diminish the sedative effect of the zolpidem:
Flumazenil

Enhances the sedative effect of the following drugs: Pramipexole, Ropinirole, Rotigotine

Enhances the toxic/adverse effects of SSRIs (psychomotor impairment)

Avoid concomitant use with:

FOOD INTERACTIONS: Grapefruit juice may decrease the metabolism of zolpidem. Avoid grapefruit juice.

Mechanism of Action

Zolpidem tartrate, a type A, γ-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) - receptor agonist of the imidazopyridine class, is a sedative
and hypnotic agent. As conventional tablets, zolpidem tartrate is used as a hypnotic agent in the short- term
management of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation.

Pregnancy & Remarks

PREGNANCY CATEGORY

B

Page 4 of 4